Paul, an Apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy, a brother,
to the saints and faithful brothers in Christ Jesus who are at Colossae.
Grace and peace to you, from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying for you always.
For we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, and of the love that you have toward all the saints,
because of the hope that has been stored up for you in heaven, which you have heard through the Word of Truth in the Gospel.
This has reached you, just as it is present in the whole world, where it grows and bears fruit, as it has also done in you, since the day when you first heard and knew the grace of God in truth,
just as you learned it from Epaphras, our most beloved fellow servant, who is for you a faithful minister of Christ Jesus.
And he has also manifested to us your love in the Spirit.
Then, too, from the day when we first heard it, we have not ceased praying for you and requesting that you be filled with the knowledge of his will, with all wisdom and spiritual understanding,
so that you may walk in a manner worthy of God, being pleasing in all things, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God,
being strengthened in every virtue, in accord with the power of his glory, with all patience and longsuffering, with joy,
giving thanks to God the Father, who has made us worthy to have a share in the portion of the saints, in the light.
For he has rescued us from the power of darkness, and he has transferred us into the kingdom of the Son of his love,
in whom we have redemption through his blood, the remission of sins.
He is the image of the invisible God, the first-born of every creature.
For in him was created everything in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones, or dominations, or principalities, or powers. All things were created through him and in him.
And he is before all, and in him all things continue.
And he is the head of his body, the Church. He is the beginning, the first-born from the dead, so that in all things he may hold primacy.
For the Father is well-pleased that all fullness reside in him,
and that, through him, all things be reconciled to himself, making peace through the blood of his cross, for the things that are on earth, as well as the things that are in heaven.
And you, though you had been, in times past, understood to be foreigners and enemies, with works of evil,
yet now he has reconciled you, by his body of flesh, through death, so as to offer you, holy and immaculate and blameless, before him.
So then, continue in the faith: well-founded and steadfast and immovable, by the hope of the Gospel that you have heard, which has been preached throughout all creation under heaven, the Gospel of which I, Paul, have become a minister.
For now I rejoice in my passion on your behalf, and I complete in my flesh the things that are lacking in the Passion of Christ, for the sake of his body, which is the Church.
For I have become a minister of the Church, according to the dispensation of God that has been given to me among you, so that I may fulfill the Word of God,
the mystery which had remained hidden to past ages and generations, but which now is manifested to his saints.
To them, God willed to made known the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ and the hope of his glory within you.
We are announcing him, correcting every man and teaching every man, with all wisdom, so that we may offer every man perfect in Christ Jesus.
In him, too, I labor, striving according to his action within me, which he works in virtue.
For I want you to know the kind of solicitude that I have for you, and for those who are at Laodicea, as well as for those who have not seen my face in the flesh.
May their hearts be consoled and instructed in charity, with all the riches of a plenitude of understanding, with knowledge of the mystery of God the Father and of Christ Jesus.
For in him are hidden all treasures of wisdom and knowledge.
Now I say this, so that no one may deceive you with grandiose words.
For though I may be absent in body, yet I am with you in spirit. And I rejoice as I gaze upon your order and its foundation, which is in Christ, your faith.
Therefore, just as you have received the Lord Jesus Christ, walk in him.
Be rooted and continually built up in Christ. And be confirmed in the faith, just as you have also learned it, increasing in him with acts of thanksgiving.
See to it that no one deceives you through philosophy and empty falsehoods, as found in the traditions of men, in accord with the influences of the world, and not in accord with Christ.
For in him, all the fullness of the Divine Nature dwells bodily.
And in him, you have been filled; for he is the head of all principality and power.
In him also, you have been circumcised with a circumcision not made by hand, not by the despoiling of the body of flesh, but by the circumcision of Christ.
You have been buried with him in baptism. In him also, you have risen again through faith, by the work of God, who raised him up from the dead.
And when you were dead in your transgressions and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, he enlivened you, together with him, forgiving you of all transgressions,
and wiping away the handwriting of the decree which was against us, which was contrary to us. And he has taken this away from your midst, affixing it to the Cross.
And so, despoiling principalities and powers, he has led them away confidently and openly, triumphing over them in himself.
Therefore, let no one judge you as concerns food or drink, or a particular feast day, or feast days of new moons, or of Sabbaths.
For these are a shadow of the future, but the body is of Christ.
Let no one seduce you, preferring base things and a religion of Angels, walking according to what he has not seen, being vainly inflated by the sensations of his flesh,
and not holding up the head, with which the whole body, by its underlying joints and ligaments, is joined together and grows with an increase that is of God.
So then, if you have died with Christ to the influences of this world, why do you still make decisions as if you were living in the world?
Do not touch, do not taste, do not handle these things,
which all lead to destruction by their very use, in accord with the precepts and doctrines of men.
Such ideas have at least an intention to attain to wisdom, but through superstition and debasement, not sparing the body, and they are without any honor in satiating the flesh.
Therefore, if you have risen together with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God.
Consider the things that are above, not the things that are upon the earth.
For you have died, and so your life is hidden with Christ in God.
When Christ, your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.
Therefore, mortify your body, while it is upon the earth. For because of fornication, impurity, lust, evil desires, and avarice, which are a kind of service to idols,
the wrath of God has overwhelmed the sons of unbelief.
You, too, walked in these things, in times past, when you were living among them.
But now you must set aside all these things: anger, indignation, malice, blasphemy, and indecent speech from your mouth.
Do not lie to one another. Strip yourselves of the old man, with his deeds,
and clothe yourself with the new man, who has been renewed by knowledge, in accord with the image of the One who created him,
where there is neither Gentile nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian nor Scythian, servant nor free. Instead, Christ is everything, in everyone.
Therefore, clothe yourselves like the elect of God: holy and beloved, with hearts of mercy, kindness, humility, modesty, and patience.
Support one another, and, if anyone has a complaint against another, forgive one another. For just as the Lord has forgiven you, so also must you do.
And above all these things have charity, which is the bond of perfection.
And let the peace of Christ lift up your hearts. For in this peace, you have been called, as one body. And be thankful.
Let the word of Christ live in you in abundance, with all wisdom, teaching and correcting one another, with psalms, hymns, and spiritual canticles, singing to God with the grace in your hearts.
Let everything whatsoever that you do, whether in word or in deed, be done all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God the Father through him.
Wives, be submissive to your husbands, as is proper in the Lord.
Husbands, love your wives, and do not be bitter toward them.
Children, obey your parents in all things. For this is well-pleasing to the Lord.
Fathers, do not provoke your children to indignation, lest they lose heart.
Servants, obey, in all things, your lords according to the flesh, not serving only when seen, as if to please men, but serving in simplicity of heart, fearing God.
Whatever you do, do it from the heart, as for the Lord, and not for men.
For you know that you will receive from the Lord the repayment of an inheritance. Serve Christ the Lord.
For whoever causes injury shall be repaid for what he has wrongfully done. And there no favoritism with God.
You masters, supply your servants with what is just and equitable, knowing that you, too, have a Master in heaven.
Pursue prayer. Be watchful in prayer with acts of thanksgiving.
Pray together, for us also, so that God may open a door of speech to us, so as to speak the mystery of Christ, (because of which, even now, I am in chains)
so that I may manifest it in the manner that I ought to speak.
Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming this age.
Let your speech be ever graceful, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to respond to each person.
As for the things that concern me, Tychicus, a most beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord, will make everything known to you.
I have sent him to you for this very purpose, so that he may know the things that concern you, and may console your hearts,
with Onesimus, a most beloved and faithful brother, who is from among you. They shall make known to you everything that is happening here.
Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, as does Mark, the near cousin of Barnabas, about whom you have received instructions, (if he comes to you, receive him)
and Jesus, who is called Justus, and those who are of the circumcision. These alone are my assistants, unto the kingdom of God; they have been a consolation to me.
Epaphras greets you, who is from among you, a servant of Christ Jesus, ever solicitous for you in prayer, so that you may stand, perfect and complete, in the entire will of God.
For I offer testimony to him, that he has labored greatly for you, and for those who are at Laodicea, and for those at Hierapolis.
Luke, a most beloved physician, greets you, as does Demas.
Greet the brothers who are at Laodicea, and Nymphas, and those who are at his house, a church.
And when this epistle has been read among you, cause it to be read also in the church of the Laodiceans, and you should read that which is from the Laodiceans.
And tell Archippus: “See to the ministry that you have received in the Lord, in order to fulfill it.”
The greeting of Paul by my own hand. Remember my chains. May grace be with you. Amen.
1 Thessalonians 1:1	Paul and Sylvanus and Timothy, to the church of the Thessalonians, in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Thessalonians 1:2	Grace and peace to you. We give thanks to God always for all of you, keeping the memory of you in our prayers without ceasing,
1 Thessalonians 1:3	remembering your work of faith, and hardship, and charity, and enduring hope, in our Lord Jesus Christ, before God our Father.
1 Thessalonians 1:4	For we know, brothers, beloved of God, of your election.
1 Thessalonians 1:5	For our Gospel has not been among you in word alone, but also in virtue, and in the Holy Spirit, and with a great fullness, in the same manner as you know we have acted among you for your sake.
1 Thessalonians 1:6	And so, you became imitators of us and of the Lord, accepting the Word in the midst of great tribulation, but with the joy of the Holy Spirit.
1 Thessalonians 1:7	So have you become a pattern for all who believe in Macedonia and in Achaia.
1 Thessalonians 1:8	For from you, the Word of the Lord was spread, not only in Macedonia and in Achaia, but also in every place. Your faith, which is toward God, has advanced so much so that we do not need to speak to you about anything.
1 Thessalonians 1:9	For others are reporting among us of the kind of acceptance we had among you, and how you were converted from idols to God, to the service of the living and true God,
1 Thessalonians 1:10	and to the expectation of his Son from heaven (whom he raised up from the dead), Jesus, who has rescued us from the approaching wrath.
1 Thessalonians 2:1	For you yourselves know, brothers, that our acceptance among you was not empty.
1 Thessalonians 2:2	Instead, having previously suffered and been treated shamefully, as you know, at Philippi, we had confidence in our God, so as to speak the Gospel of God to you with much solicitude.
1 Thessalonians 2:3	For our exhortation was not in error, nor from impurity, nor with deception.
1 Thessalonians 2:4	But, just as we have been tested by God, so that the Gospel would be entrusted to us, so also did we speak, not so as to please men, but rather to please God, who tests our hearts.
1 Thessalonians 2:5	And neither did we, at any time, become flattering in speech, as you know, nor did we seek an opportunity for avarice, as God is witness.
1 Thessalonians 2:6	Nor did we seek the glory of men, neither from you, nor from others.
1 Thessalonians 2:7	And although we could have been a burden to you, as Apostles of Christ, instead we became like little ones in your midst, like a nurse cherishing her children.
1 Thessalonians 2:8	So desirous were we for you that we were willing to hand over to you, not only the Gospel of God, but even our own souls. For you have become most beloved to us.
1 Thessalonians 2:9	For you remember, brothers, our hardship and weariness. We preached the Gospel of God among you, working night and day, so that we would not be burdensome to any of you.
1 Thessalonians 2:10	You are witnesses, as is God, of how holy and just and blameless we were with you who have believed.
1 Thessalonians 2:11	And you know the manner, with each one of you, like a father with his sons,
1 Thessalonians 2:12	in which we were pleading with you and consoling you, bearing witness, so that you would walk in a manner worthy of God, who has called you into his kingdom and glory.
1 Thessalonians 2:13	For this reason also, we give thanks to God without ceasing: because, when you had accepted from us the Word of the hearing of God, you accepted it not as the word of men, but (as it truly is) as the Word of God, who is working in you who have believed.
1 Thessalonians 2:14	For you, brothers, have become imitators of the churches of God which are at Judea, in Christ Jesus. For you, too, have suffered the same things from your fellow countrymen as they have suffered from the Jews,
1 Thessalonians 2:15	who also killed both the Lord Jesus, and the Prophets, and who have persecuted us. But they do not please God, and so they are adversaries to all men.
1 Thessalonians 2:16	They prohibit us to speak to the Gentiles, so that they may be saved, and thus do they continually add to their own sins. But the wrath of God will overtake them in the very end.
1 Thessalonians 2:17	And we, brothers, having been deprived of you for a short time, in sight, but not in heart, have hurried all the more to see your face, with a great desire.
1 Thessalonians 2:18	For we wanted to come to you, (indeed, I, Paul, attempted to do so once, and then again,) but Satan impeded us.
1 Thessalonians 2:19	For what is our hope, and our joy, and our crown of glory? Is it not you, before our Lord Jesus Christ at his return?
1 Thessalonians 2:20	For you are our glory and our joy.
1 Thessalonians 3:1	Because of this, willing to wait no longer, it was pleasing to us to remain at Athens, alone.
1 Thessalonians 3:2	And we sent Timothy, our brother and a minister of God in the Gospel of Christ, to confirm you and to exhort you, on behalf of your faith,
1 Thessalonians 3:3	so that no one would be disturbed during these tribulations. For you yourselves know that we have been appointed to this.
1 Thessalonians 3:4	For even while we were with you, we predicted to you that we would suffer tribulations, even as it has happened, and as you know.
1 Thessalonians 3:5	For this reason also, I was not willing to wait any longer, and I sent to find out about your faith, lest perhaps he who tempts may have tempted you, and our labor might have been in vain.
1 Thessalonians 3:6	But then, when Timothy arrived to us from you, he reported to us your faith and charity, and that you keep a good remembrance of us always, desiring to see us, just as we likewise desire to see you.
1 Thessalonians 3:7	As a result, we were consoled in you, brothers, in the midst of all our difficulties and tribulations, through your faith.
1 Thessalonians 3:8	For we now live so that you may stand firm in the Lord.
1 Thessalonians 3:9	For what thanks would we be able to repay to God because of you, for all the joy with which we rejoice over you before our God?
1 Thessalonians 3:10	For night and day, ever more abundantly, we are praying that we may see your face, and that we may complete those things that are lacking in your faith.
1 Thessalonians 3:11	But may God our Father himself, and our Lord Jesus Christ, direct our way to you.
1 Thessalonians 3:12	And may the Lord multiply you, and make you abound in your charity toward one another and toward all, just as we also do toward you,
1 Thessalonians 3:13	in order to confirm your hearts without blame, in sanctity, before God our Father, unto the return of our Lord Jesus Christ, with all his saints. Amen.
1 Thessalonians 4:1	Therefore, concerning other things, brothers, we ask and beg you, in the Lord Jesus, that, just as you have received from us the way in which you ought to walk and to please God, so also may you walk, in order that you may abound all the more.
1 Thessalonians 4:2	For you know what precepts I have given to you through the Lord Jesus.
1 Thessalonians 4:3	For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you should abstain from fornication,
1 Thessalonians 4:4	that each one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor,
1 Thessalonians 4:5	not in passions of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God,
1 Thessalonians 4:6	and that no one should overwhelm or circumvent his brother in business. For the Lord is the vindicator of all these things, just as we have preached and testified to you.
1 Thessalonians 4:7	For God has not called us to impurity, but to sanctification.
1 Thessalonians 4:8	And so, whoever despises these teachings, does not despise man, but God, who has even provided his Holy Spirit within us.
1 Thessalonians 4:9	But concerning the charity of brotherhood, we have no need to write to you. For you yourselves have learned from God that you should love one another.
1 Thessalonians 4:10	For indeed, you act in this way with all the brothers in all of Macedonia. But we petition you, brothers, so that you may abound all the more,
1 Thessalonians 4:11	to choose work that allows you to be tranquil, and to carry out your business and to do your work with your own hands, just as we have instructed you,
1 Thessalonians 4:12	and to walk honestly with those who are outside, and to desire nothing belonging to another.
1 Thessalonians 4:13	And we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, concerning those who are sleeping, so as not to be sorrowful, like these others who do not have hope.
1 Thessalonians 4:14	For if we believe that Jesus has died and risen again, so also will God bring back with Jesus those who sleep in him.
1 Thessalonians 4:15	For we say this to you, in the Word of the Lord: that we who are alive, who remain until the return of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep.
1 Thessalonians 4:16	For the Lord himself, with a command and with the voice of an Archangel and with a trumpet of God, shall descend from heaven. And the dead, who are in Christ, shall rise up first.
1 Thessalonians 4:17	Next, we who are alive, who are remaining, shall be taken up quickly together with them into the clouds to meet Christ in the air. And in this way, we shall be with the Lord always.
1 Thessalonians 4:18	Therefore, console one another with these words.
1 Thessalonians 5:1	But concerning dates and times, brothers, you do not need us to write to you.
1 Thessalonians 5:2	For you yourselves thoroughly understand that the day of the Lord shall arrive much like a thief in the night.
1 Thessalonians 5:3	For when they will say, “Peace and security!” then destruction will suddenly overwhelm them, like the labor pains of a woman with child, and they will not escape.
1 Thessalonians 5:4	But you, brothers, are not in darkness, so that you would be overtaken by that day as by a thief.
1 Thessalonians 5:5	For all of you are sons of light and sons of daytime; we are not of nighttime, nor of darkness.
1 Thessalonians 5:6	Therefore, let us not sleep, as the rest do. Instead, we should be vigilant and sober.
1 Thessalonians 5:7	For those who sleep, sleep in the night; and those who are inebriated, are inebriated in the night.
1 Thessalonians 5:8	But we, who are of the daylight, should be sober, being clothed with the breastplate of faith and of charity and having, as a helmet, the hope of salvation.
1 Thessalonians 5:9	For God has not appointed us for wrath, but for the acquisition of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
1 Thessalonians 5:10	who died for us, so that, whether we watch, or whether we sleep, we may live in union with him.
1 Thessalonians 5:11	Because of this, console one another and build up one another, just as you are doing.
1 Thessalonians 5:12	And we ask you, brothers, to recognize those who labor among you, and who preside over you in the Lord, and who admonish you,
1 Thessalonians 5:13	so that you may consider them with an abundance of charity, for the sake of their work. Be at peace with them.
1 Thessalonians 5:14	And we ask you, brothers: correct the disruptive, console the weak-minded, support the sick, be patient with everyone.
1 Thessalonians 5:15	See to it that no one repays evil for evil to anyone. Instead, always pursue whatever is good, with one another and with all.
1 Thessalonians 5:16	Rejoice always.
1 Thessalonians 5:17	Pray without ceasing.
1 Thessalonians 5:18	Give thanks in everything. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for all of you.
1 Thessalonians 5:19	Do not choose to extinguish the Spirit.
1 Thessalonians 5:20	Do not spurn prophecies.
1 Thessalonians 5:21	But test all things. Hold on to whatever is good.
1 Thessalonians 5:22	Abstain from every kind of evil.
1 Thessalonians 5:23	And may the God of peace himself sanctify you through all things, so that your whole spirit and soul and body may be preserved without blame unto the return of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Thessalonians 5:24	He who has called you is faithful. He shall act even now.
1 Thessalonians 5:25	Brothers, pray for us.
1 Thessalonians 5:26	Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
1 Thessalonians 5:27	I bind you, through the Lord, that this epistle is to be read to all the holy brothers.
1 Thessalonians 5:28	May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.
2 Thessalonians 1:1	Paul and Sylvanus and Timothy, to the church of the Thessalonians, in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 1:2	Grace and peace to you, from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 1:3	We ought to give thanks always to God for you, brothers, in a fitting manner, because your faith is increasing greatly, and because the charity of each of you toward one another is abundant,
2 Thessalonians 1:4	so much so that we ourselves even glory in you among the churches of God, because of your patience and faith in all of your persecutions and tribulations that you endure,
2 Thessalonians 1:5	which are a sign of the just judgment of God, so that you may be held worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you also suffer.
2 Thessalonians 1:6	For certainly, it is just for God to repay trouble to those who trouble you,
2 Thessalonians 1:7	and to repay you, who are being troubled, with a repose with us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with the Angels of his virtue,
2 Thessalonians 1:8	granting vindication, by a flame of fire, against those who do not know God and who are not obedient to the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 1:9	These shall be given the eternal punishment of destruction, apart from the face of the Lord and apart from the glory of his virtue,
2 Thessalonians 1:10	when he arrives to be glorified in his saints, and to become a wonder in all those who have believed, in that day, because our testimony has been believed by you.
2 Thessalonians 1:11	Because of this, too, we pray always for you, so that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may complete every act of his goodness, as well as his work of faith in virtue,
2 Thessalonians 1:12	in order that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him, in accord with the grace of our God and of the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 2:1	But we ask you, brothers, concerning the advent of our Lord Jesus Christ and of our gathering to him,
2 Thessalonians 2:2	that you not be readily disturbed or terrified in your minds, by any spirit, or word, or epistle, supposedly sent from us, claiming that the day of the Lord is close by.
2 Thessalonians 2:3	Let no one deceive you in any way. For this cannot be, unless the apostasy will have arrived first, and the man of sin will have been revealed, the son of perdition,
2 Thessalonians 2:4	who is an adversary to, and who is lifted up above, all that is called God or that is worshipped, so much so that he sits in the temple of God, presenting himself as if he were God.
2 Thessalonians 2:5	Do you not recall that, when I was still with you, I told you these things?
2 Thessalonians 2:6	And now you know what it is that holds him back, so that he may be revealed in his own time.
2 Thessalonians 2:7	For the mystery of iniquity is already at work. And only one now holds back, and will continue to hold back, until he is taken from our midst.
2 Thessalonians 2:8	And then that iniquitous one shall be revealed, the one whom the Lord Jesus shall bring to ruin with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy at the brightness of his return:
2 Thessalonians 2:9	him whose advent is accompanied by the works of Satan, with every kind of power and signs and false miracles,
2 Thessalonians 2:10	and with every seduction of iniquity, toward those who are perishing because they have not accepted the love of truth, so that they may be saved.
2 Thessalonians 2:11	For this reason, God will send to them works of deception, so that they may believe in lies,
2 Thessalonians 2:12	in order that all those who have not believed in the truth, but who have consented to iniquity, may be judged.
2 Thessalonians 2:13	Yet we must always give thanks to God for you, brothers, beloved of God, because God has chosen you as first-fruits for salvation, by the sanctification of the Spirit and by faith in the truth.
2 Thessalonians 2:14	He has also called you into truth through our Gospel, unto the acquisition of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 2:15	And so, brothers, stand firm, and hold to the traditions that you have learned, whether by word or by our epistle.
2 Thessalonians 2:16	So may our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God our Father, who has loved us and who has given us an everlasting consolation and good hope in grace,
2 Thessalonians 2:17	exhort your hearts and confirm you in every good word and deed.
2 Thessalonians 3:1	Concerning other things, brothers, pray for us, so that the Word of God may advance and be glorified, just as it is among you,
2 Thessalonians 3:2	and so that we may be freed from pertinacious and evil men. For not everyone is faithful.
2 Thessalonians 3:3	But God is faithful. He will strengthen you, and he will guard you from evil.
2 Thessalonians 3:4	And we have confidence about you in the Lord, that you are doing, and will continue to do, just as we have instructed.
2 Thessalonians 3:5	And may the Lord direct your hearts, in the charity of God and with the patience of Christ.
2 Thessalonians 3:6	But we strongly caution you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to draw yourselves away from every brother who is walking in disorder and not according to the tradition that they received from us.
2 Thessalonians 3:7	For you yourselves know the manner in which you ought to imitate us. For we were not disorderly among you.
2 Thessalonians 3:8	Nor did we eat bread from anyone for free, but rather, we worked night and day, in hardship and weariness, so as not to be burdensome to you.
2 Thessalonians 3:9	It was not as if we had no authority, but this was so that we might present ourselves as an example to you, in order to imitate us.
2 Thessalonians 3:10	Then, too, while we were with you, we insisted on this to you: that if anyone was not willing to work, neither should he eat.
2 Thessalonians 3:11	For we have heard that there are some among you who act disruptively, not working at all, but eagerly meddling.
2 Thessalonians 3:12	Now we charge those who act in this way, and we beg them in the Lord Jesus Christ, that they work in silence and eat their own bread.
2 Thessalonians 3:13	And you, brothers, do not grow weak in doing good.
2 Thessalonians 3:14	But if anyone does not obey our word by this epistle, take note of him and do not keep company with him, so that he may be ashamed.
2 Thessalonians 3:15	But do not be willing to consider him as an enemy; instead, correct him as a brother.
2 Thessalonians 3:16	Then may the Lord of peace himself give you an everlasting peace, in every place. May the Lord be with all of you.
2 Thessalonians 3:17	The greeting of Paul with my own hand, which is the seal in every epistle. So do I write.
2 Thessalonians 3:18	May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
1 Timothy 1:1	Paul, an Apostle of Jesus Christ by the authority of God our Savior and Christ Jesus our hope,
1 Timothy 1:2	to Timothy, beloved son in the faith. Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and from Christ Jesus our Lord.
1 Timothy 1:3	Now I asked you to remain at Ephesus, while I went into Macedonia, so that you would speak strongly against certain ones who have been teaching a different way,
1 Timothy 1:4	against those who have been paying attention to fables and endless genealogies. These things present questions as if they were greater than the edification that is of God, which is in faith.
1 Timothy 1:5	Now the goal of instruction is charity from a pure heart, and a good conscience, and an unfeigned faith.
1 Timothy 1:6	Certain persons, wandering away from these things, have been turned aside to empty babbling,
1 Timothy 1:7	desiring to be teachers of the law, but understanding neither the things that they themselves are saying, nor what they are affirming about these things.
1 Timothy 1:8	But we know that the law is good, if one makes use of it properly.
1 Timothy 1:9	Knowing this, that the law was not set in place for the just, but for the unjust and the insubordinate, for the impious and sinners, for the wicked and the defiled, for those who commit patricide, matricide, or homicide,
1 Timothy 1:10	for fornicators, for males who sleep with males, for kidnappers, for liars, for perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine,
1 Timothy 1:11	which is in accord with the Gospel of the glory of the blessed God, the Gospel which has been entrusted to me.
1 Timothy 1:12	I give thanks to him who has strengthened me, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he has considered me faithful, placing me in the ministry,
1 Timothy 1:13	though previously I was a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and contemptuous. But then I obtained the mercy of God. For I had been acting ignorantly, in unbelief.
1 Timothy 1:14	And so the grace of our Lord has abounded greatly, with the faith and love that is in Christ Jesus.
1 Timothy 1:15	It is a faithful saying, and worthy of acceptance by everyone, that Christ Jesus came into this world to bring salvation to sinners, among whom I am first.
1 Timothy 1:16	But it was for this reason that I obtained mercy, so that in me as first, Christ Jesus would display all patience, for the instruction of those who would believe in him unto eternal life.
1 Timothy 1:17	So then, to the King of ages, to the immortal, invisible, solitary God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.
1 Timothy 1:18	This precept I commend to you, my son Timothy, in accord with the prophets who preceded you: that you serve among them like a soldier in a good war,
1 Timothy 1:19	holding to faith and good conscience, against those who, by rejecting these things, have made a shipwreck of the faith.
1 Timothy 1:20	Among these are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan, so that they may learn not to blaspheme.
1 Timothy 2:1	And so I beg you, first of all, to make supplications, prayers, petitions, and thanksgivings for all men,
1 Timothy 2:2	for kings, and for all who are in high places, so that we may lead a quiet and tranquil life in all piety and chastity.
1 Timothy 2:3	For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior,
1 Timothy 2:4	who wants all men to be saved and to arrive at an acknowledgment of the truth.
1 Timothy 2:5	For there is one God, and one mediator of God and of men, the man Christ Jesus,
1 Timothy 2:6	who gave himself as a redemption for all, as a testimony in its proper time.
1 Timothy 2:7	Of this testimony, I have been appointed a preacher and an Apostle, (I speak the truth, I do not lie) as a teacher of the Gentiles, in faith and in truth.
1 Timothy 2:8	Therefore, I want men to pray in every place, lifting up pure hands, without anger or dissension.
1 Timothy 2:9	Similarly also, women should be dressed fittingly, adorning themselves with compunction and restraint, and not with plaited hair, nor gold, nor pearls, nor costly attire,
1 Timothy 2:10	but in a manner proper for women who are professing piety by means of good works.
1 Timothy 2:11	Let a woman learn in silence with all subjection.
1 Timothy 2:12	For I do not permit a woman to teach, nor to be in authority over a man, but to be in silence.
1 Timothy 2:13	For Adam was formed first, then Eve.
1 Timothy 2:14	And Adam was not seduced, but the woman, having been seduced, was in transgression.
1 Timothy 2:15	Yet she will be saved by bearing children, if she has continued in faith and love, and in sanctification accompanied by self-restraint.
1 Timothy 3:1	It is a faithful saying: if a man desires the episcopate, he desires a good work.
1 Timothy 3:2	Therefore, it is necessary for a bishop to be beyond reproach, the husband of one wife, sober, prudent, gracious, chaste, hospitable, a teacher,
1 Timothy 3:3	not a drunkard, not combative but restrained, not quarrelsome, not covetous;
1 Timothy 3:4	but a man who leads his own house well, having children who are subordinate with all chastity.
1 Timothy 3:5	For if a man does not know how to lead his own house, how will he take care of the Church of God?
1 Timothy 3:6	He must not be a new convert, lest, being elated by pride, he may fall under the sentence of the devil.
1 Timothy 3:7	And it is necessary for him also to have good testimony from those who are outside, so that he may not fall into disrepute and the snare of the devil.
1 Timothy 3:8	Similarly, deacons must be chaste, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not pursuing tainted profit,
1 Timothy 3:9	holding to the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience.
1 Timothy 3:10	And these things should be proven first, and then they may minister, being without offense.
1 Timothy 3:11	Similarly, the women must be chaste, not slanderers, sober, faithful in all things.
1 Timothy 3:12	Deacons should be the husband of one wife, men who lead their own children and their own houses well.
1 Timothy 3:13	For those who have ministered well will acquire for themselves a good position, and much confidence in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.
1 Timothy 3:14	I am writing these things to you, with the hope that I will come to you soon.
1 Timothy 3:15	But, if I am delayed, you should know the manner in which it is necessary to conduct yourself in the house of God, which is the Church of the living God, the pillar and the foundation of truth.
1 Timothy 3:16	And it is clearly great, this mystery of piety, which was manifested in the flesh, which was justified in the Spirit, which has appeared to Angels, which has been preached to the Gentiles, which is believed in the world, which has been taken up in glory.
1 Timothy 4:1	Now the Spirit has clearly said that, in the end times, some persons will depart from the faith, paying attention to spirits of error and the doctrines of devils,
1 Timothy 4:2	speaking lies in hypocrisy, and having their consciences seared,
1 Timothy 4:3	prohibiting marriage, abstaining from foods, which God has created to be accepted with thanksgiving by the faithful and by those who have understood the truth.
1 Timothy 4:4	For every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be rejected which is received with thanksgiving;
1 Timothy 4:5	for it has been sanctified by the Word of God and by prayer.
1 Timothy 4:6	By proposing these things to the brothers, you will be a good minister of Christ Jesus, nourished by words of faith, and by the good doctrine that you have secured.
1 Timothy 4:7	But avoid the silly fables of old women. And exercise yourself so as to advance in piety.
1 Timothy 4:8	For the exercise of the body is somewhat useful. But piety is useful in all things, holding the promise of life, in the present and in the future.
1 Timothy 4:9	This is a faithful saying and worthy of full acceptance.
1 Timothy 4:10	For this reason we labor and are maligned: because we hope in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, most especially of the faithful.
1 Timothy 4:11	Instruct and teach these things.
1 Timothy 4:12	Let no one despise your youth, but be an example among the faithful in word, in behavior, in charity, in faith, in chastity.
1 Timothy 4:13	Until I arrive, attend to reading, to exhortation, and to doctrine.
1 Timothy 4:14	Do not be willing to neglect the grace that is within you, which was given to you through prophecy, with the imposition of the hands of the priesthood.
1 Timothy 4:15	Meditate on these things, so that your progress may be manifest to all.
1 Timothy 4:16	Pay attention to yourself and to doctrine. Pursue these things. For in doing so, you will save both yourself and those who listen to you.
1 Timothy 5:1	You should not rebuke an old man, but rather plead with him, as if he were your father; with young men, like brothers;
1 Timothy 5:2	with old women, like mothers; with young women, in all chastity, like sisters.
1 Timothy 5:3	Honor those widows who are true widows.
1 Timothy 5:4	But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let her first learn to manage her own household, and to fulfill, in turn, her own obligation to her parents; for this is acceptable before God.
1 Timothy 5:5	But she who is truly a widow and is destitute, let her hope in God, and let her be urgent in supplications and prayers, night and day.
1 Timothy 5:6	For she who is living in pleasures is dead, while living.
1 Timothy 5:7	And give instruction in this, so that they may be beyond reproach.
1 Timothy 5:8	But if anyone has no concern for his own, and especially for those of his own household, he has denied the faith, and he is worse than an unbeliever.
1 Timothy 5:9	Let a widow be chosen who is no less than sixty years of age, who was the wife of one husband,
1 Timothy 5:10	who has testimony of her good works: whether she has educated children, or has provided hospitality, or has washed the feet of the saints, or has ministered to those suffering tribulation, or has pursued any kind of good work.
1 Timothy 5:11	But avoid the younger widows. For once they have flourished in Christ, they will want to marry,
1 Timothy 5:12	resulting in damnation, because they have disregarded the primacy of faith.
1 Timothy 5:13	And being at the same time also idle, they learn to go from house to house, being not only idle, but also talkative and curious, speaking of things which do not concern them.
1 Timothy 5:14	Therefore, I want the younger women to marry, to procreate children, to be mothers of families, to provide no ready opportunity for the adversary to speak evil.
1 Timothy 5:15	For certain ones have already been turned back to Satan.
1 Timothy 5:16	If any among the faithful have widows, let him minister to them and not burden the Church, so that there may be enough for those who are true widows.
1 Timothy 5:17	Let priests who lead well be held worthy of twice the honor, especially those who labor in the Word and in doctrine.
1 Timothy 5:18	For Scripture says: “You shall not muzzle an ox as it is treading out the grain,” and, “The worker is worthy of his pay.”
1 Timothy 5:19	Do not be willing to accept an accusation against a priest, except under two or three witnesses.
1 Timothy 5:20	Reprove sinners in the sight of everyone, so that the others may have fear.
1 Timothy 5:21	I testify before God and Christ Jesus and the elect Angels, that you should observe these things without prejudgment, doing nothing which shows favoritism to either side.
1 Timothy 5:22	You should not be quick to impose hands on anyone, nor should you take part in the sins of outsiders. Keep yourself chaste.
1 Timothy 5:23	Do not continue to drink only water, but make use of a little wine, for the sake of your stomach and your frequent infirmities.
1 Timothy 5:24	The sins of some men have been made manifest, preceding them to judgment, but those of others are manifested later.
1 Timothy 5:25	Similarly, too, good deeds have been made manifest, but even when they are not, they cannot remain hidden.
1 Timothy 6:1	Whoever are servants under the yoke, let them consider their masters to be worthy of every honor, lest the name and doctrine of the Lord be blasphemed.
1 Timothy 6:2	But those who have believing masters, let them not despise them because they are brothers, but rather serve them all the more because they are believing and beloved, participants of the same service. Teach and exhort these things.
1 Timothy 6:3	If anyone teaches otherwise, and does not consent to the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to that doctrine which is in accord with piety,
1 Timothy 6:4	then he is arrogant, knowing nothing, yet languishing amid the questions and quarrels of words. From these arise envy, contention, blasphemy, evil suspicions:
1 Timothy 6:5	the conflicts of men who have been corrupted in mind and deprived of truth, who consider profit to be piety.
1 Timothy 6:6	But piety with sufficiency is great gain.
1 Timothy 6:7	For we brought nothing into this world, and there is no doubt that we can take nothing away.
1 Timothy 6:8	But, having nourishment and some kind of covering, we should be content with these.
1 Timothy 6:9	For those who want to become rich fall into temptation and into the snare of the devil and into many useless and harmful desires, which submerge men in destruction and in perdition.
1 Timothy 6:10	For desire is the root of all evils. Some persons, hungering in this way, have strayed from the faith and have entangled themselves in many sorrows.
1 Timothy 6:11	But you, O man of God, flee from these things, and truly pursue justice, piety, faith, charity, patience, meekness.
1 Timothy 6:12	Fight the good fight of faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you have been called, and make a good profession of faith in the sight of many witnesses.
1 Timothy 6:13	I charge you, in the sight of God, who enlivens all things, and in the sight of Christ Jesus, who gave the testimony of a good profession under Pontius Pilate,
1 Timothy 6:14	to observe the commandment, immaculately, irreproachably, unto the return of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Timothy 6:15	For at the proper time, he shall reveal the blessed and only Power, the King of kings and the Lord of lords,
1 Timothy 6:16	who alone holds immortality, and who inhabits the inaccessible light, whom no man has seen, nor even is able to see, to whom is honor and everlasting dominion. Amen.
1 Timothy 6:17	Instruct the wealthy of this age not to have a superior attitude, nor to hope in the uncertainty of riches, but in the living God, who offers us everything in abundance to enjoy,
1 Timothy 6:18	and to do good, to become rich in good works, to donate readily, to share,
1 Timothy 6:19	to gather for themselves the treasure of a good foundation for the future, so that they may obtain true life.
1 Timothy 6:20	O Timothy, guard what has been deposited with you, avoiding the voice of profane novelties and of opposing ideas, which are falsely called knowledge.
1 Timothy 6:21	Certain persons, promising these things, have perished from the faith. May grace be with you. Amen.
2 Timothy 1:1	Paul, an Apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, in accord with the promise of the life which is in Christ Jesus,
2 Timothy 1:2	to Timothy, most beloved son. Grace, mercy, peace, from God the Father and from Christ Jesus our Lord.
2 Timothy 1:3	I give thanks to God, whom I serve, as my forefathers did, with a pure conscience. For without ceasing I hold the remembrance of you in my prayers, night and day,
2 Timothy 1:4	desiring to see you, recalling your tears so as to be filled with joy,
2 Timothy 1:5	calling to mind the same faith, which is in you unfeigned, which also first dwelt in your grandmother, Lois, and in your mother, Eunice, and also, I am certain, in you.
2 Timothy 1:6	Because of this, I admonish you to revive the grace of God, which is in you by the imposition of my hands.
2 Timothy 1:7	For God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of virtue, and of love, and of self-restraint.
2 Timothy 1:8	And so, do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me, his prisoner. Instead, collaborate with the Gospel in accord with the virtue of God,
2 Timothy 1:9	who has freed us and has called us to his holy vocation, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus, before the ages of time.
2 Timothy 1:10	And this has now been made manifest by the illumination of our Savior Jesus Christ, who certainly has destroyed death, and who has also illuminated life and incorruption through the Gospel.
2 Timothy 1:11	Of this Gospel, I have been appointed a preacher, and an Apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles.
2 Timothy 1:12	For this reason, I also suffer these things. But I am not confounded. For I know in whom I have believed, and I am certain that he has the power to preserve what was entrusted to me, unto that day.
2 Timothy 1:13	Hold to the kind of sound words that you have heard from me in the faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.
2 Timothy 1:14	Guard the good entrusted to you through the Holy Spirit, who lives within us.
2 Timothy 1:15	Know this: that all those who are in Asia have turned away from me, among whom are Phigellus and Hermogenes.
2 Timothy 1:16	May the Lord have mercy on the house of Onesiphorus, because he has often refreshed me, and he has not been ashamed of my chains.
2 Timothy 1:17	Instead, when he had arrived in Rome, he anxiously sought me and found me.
2 Timothy 1:18	May the Lord grant to him to obtain mercy from the Lord in that day. And you know well in how many ways he has ministered to me at Ephesus.
2 Timothy 2:1	And as for you, my son, be strengthened by the grace which is in Christ Jesus,
2 Timothy 2:2	and by the things which you have heard from me through many witnesses. These things encourage faithful men, who shall then be suitable to teach others also.
2 Timothy 2:3	Labor like a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
2 Timothy 2:4	No man, acting as a soldier for God, entangles himself in worldly matters, so that he may be pleasing to him for whom he has proven himself.
2 Timothy 2:5	Then, too, whoever strives in a competition is not crowned, unless he has competed lawfully.
2 Timothy 2:6	The farmer who labors ought to be the first to share in the produce.
2 Timothy 2:7	Understand what I am saying. For the Lord will give you understanding in all things.
2 Timothy 2:8	Be mindful that the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the offspring of David, has risen again from the dead, according to my Gospel.
2 Timothy 2:9	I labor in this Gospel, even while chained like an evildoer. But the Word of God is not bound.
2 Timothy 2:10	I endure all things for this reason: for the sake of the elect, so that they, too, may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus, with heavenly glory.
2 Timothy 2:11	It is a faithful saying: that if we have died with him, we will also live with him.
2 Timothy 2:12	If we suffer, we will also reign with him. If we deny him, he will also deny us.
2 Timothy 2:13	If we are unfaithful, he remains faithful: he is not able to deny himself.
2 Timothy 2:14	Insist on these things, testifying before the Lord. Do not be contentious about words, for this is useful for nothing but the subversion of listeners.
2 Timothy 2:15	Be solicitous in the task of presenting yourself before God as a proven and unashamed worker who has handled the Word of Truth correctly.
2 Timothy 2:16	But avoid profane or empty talk. For these things advance one greatly in impiety.
2 Timothy 2:17	And their word spreads like a cancer: among these are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
2 Timothy 2:18	who have fallen away from the truth by saying that the resurrection is already complete. And so they have subverted the faith of certain persons.
2 Timothy 2:19	But the firm foundation of God remains standing, having this seal: the Lord knows those who are his own, and all who know the name of the Lord depart from iniquity.
2 Timothy 2:20	But, in a large house, there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also those of wood and of clay; and certainly some are held in honor, but others in dishonor.
2 Timothy 2:21	If anyone, then, will have cleansed himself from these things, he shall be a vessel held in honor, sanctified and useful to the Lord, prepared for every good work.
2 Timothy 2:22	So then, flee from the desires of your youth, yet truly, pursue justice, faith, hope, charity, and peace, along with those who call upon the Lord from a pure heart.
2 Timothy 2:23	But avoid foolish and undisciplined questions, for you know that these produce strife.
2 Timothy 2:24	For the servant of the Lord must not be contentious, but instead he must be meek toward everyone, teachable, patient,
2 Timothy 2:25	correcting with self-restraint those who resist the truth. For at any time God may give them repentance, so as to recognize the truth,
2 Timothy 2:26	and then they may recover from the snares of the devil, by whom they are held captive at his will.
2 Timothy 3:1	And know this: that in the last days perilous times will press near.
2 Timothy 3:2	Men will be lovers of themselves, greedy, self-exalting, arrogant, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, wicked,
2 Timothy 3:3	without affection, without peace, false accusers, unchaste, cruel, without kindness,
2 Timothy 3:4	traitorous, reckless, self-important, loving pleasure more than God,
2 Timothy 3:5	even having the appearance of piety while rejecting its virtue. And so, avoid them.
2 Timothy 3:6	For among these are ones who penetrate houses and lead away, like captives, foolish women burdened with sins, who are led away by means of various desires,
2 Timothy 3:7	always learning, yet never achieving knowledge of the truth.
2 Timothy 3:8	And in the same manner that Jannes and Jambres resisted Moses, so also will these resist the truth, men corrupted in mind, reprobates from the faith.
2 Timothy 3:9	But they will not advance beyond a certain point. For the folly of the latter shall be made manifest to all, just as that of the former.
2 Timothy 3:10	But you have fully comprehended my doctrine, instruction, purpose, faith, longsuffering, love, patience,
2 Timothy 3:11	persecutions, afflictions; such things as happened to me at Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra; how I endured persecutions, and how the Lord rescued me from everything.
2 Timothy 3:12	And all those who willingly live the piety in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution.
2 Timothy 3:13	But evil men and deceivers will advance in evil, erring and sending into error.
2 Timothy 3:14	Yet truly, you should remain in those things which you have learned and which have been entrusted to you. For you know from whom you have learned them.
2 Timothy 3:15	And, from your infancy, you have known the Sacred Scriptures, which are able to instruct you toward salvation, through the faith which is in Christ Jesus.
2 Timothy 3:16	All Scripture, having been divinely inspired, is useful for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for instruction in justice,
2 Timothy 3:17	so that the man of God may be perfect, having been trained for every good work.
2 Timothy 4:1	I testify before God, and before Jesus Christ, who shall judge the living and the dead through his return and his kingdom:
2 Timothy 4:2	that you should preach the word urgently, in season and out of season: reprove, entreat, rebuke, with all patience and doctrine.
2 Timothy 4:3	For there shall be a time when they will not endure sound doctrine, but instead, according to their own desires, they will gather to themselves teachers, with itching ears,
2 Timothy 4:4	and certainly, they will turn their hearing away from the truth, and they will be turned toward fables.
2 Timothy 4:5	But as for you, truly, be vigilant, laboring in all things. Do the work of an Evangelist, fulfilling your ministry. Show self-restraint.
2 Timothy 4:6	For I am already being worn away, and the time of my dissolution presses close.
2 Timothy 4:7	I have fought the good fight. I have completed the course. I have preserved the faith.
2 Timothy 4:8	As for the remainder, a crown of justice has been reserved for me, one which the Lord, the just judge, will render to me in that day, and not only to me, but also to those who look forward to his return. Hurry to return to me soon.
2 Timothy 4:9	For Demas has abandoned me, out of love for this age, and he has departed for Thessalonica.
2 Timothy 4:10	Crescens has gone to Galatia; Titus to Dalmatia.
2 Timothy 4:11	Luke alone is with me. Take Mark and bring him with you; for he is useful to me in the ministry.
2 Timothy 4:12	But Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.
2 Timothy 4:13	When you return, bring with you the supplies that I left with Carpus at Troas, and the books, but especially the parchments.
2 Timothy 4:14	Alexander the coppersmith has shown me much evil; the Lord will repay him according to his works.
2 Timothy 4:15	And you should also avoid him; for he has strongly resisted our words.
2 Timothy 4:16	At my first defense, no one stood by me, but everyone abandoned me. May it not be counted against them!
2 Timothy 4:17	But the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, so that through me the preaching would be accomplished, and so that all the Gentiles would hear. And I was freed from the mouth of the lion.
2 Timothy 4:18	The Lord has freed me from every evil work, and he will accomplish salvation by his heavenly kingdom. To him be glory forever and ever. Amen.
2 Timothy 4:19	Greet Prisca, and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.
2 Timothy 4:20	Erastus remained at Corinth. And Trophimus I left sick at Miletus.
2 Timothy 4:21	Hurry to arrive before winter. Eubulus, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brothers greet you.
2 Timothy 4:22	May the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. May grace be with you. Amen.
