James, servant of God and of our Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes of the dispersion, greetings.
My brothers, when you have fallen into various trials, consider everything a joy,
knowing that the proving of your faith exercises patience,
and patience brings a work to perfection, so that you may be perfect and whole, deficient in nothing.
But if anyone among you is in need of wisdom, let him petition God, who gives abundantly to all without reproach, and it shall be given to him.
But he should ask with faith, doubting nothing. For he who doubts is like a wave on the ocean, which is moved about by the wind and carried away;
then a man should not consider that he would receive anything from the Lord.
For a man who is of two minds is inconstant in all his ways.
Now a humble brother should glory in his exaltation,
and a rich one, in his humiliation, for he will pass away like the flower of the grass.
For the sun has risen with a scorching heat, and has dried the grass, and its flower has fallen off, and the appearance of its beauty has perished. So also will the rich one wither away, according to his paths.
Blessed is the man who suffers temptation. For when he has been proven, he shall receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love him.
No one should say, when he is tempted, that he was tempted by God. For God does not entice toward evils, and he himself tempts no one.
Yet truly, each one is tempted by his own desires, having been enticed and drawn away.
Thereafter, when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin. Yet truly sin, when it has been consummated, produces death.
And so, do not choose to go astray, my most beloved brothers.
Every excellent gift and every perfect gift is from above, descending from the Father of lights, with whom there is no change, nor any shadow of alteration.
For by his own will he produced us through the Word of truth, so that we might be a kind of beginning among his creatures.
You know this, my most beloved brothers. So let every man be quick to listen, but slow to speak and slow to anger.
For the anger of man does not accomplish the justice of God.
Because of this, having cast away all uncleanness and an abundance of malice, receive with meekness the newly-grafted Word, which is able to save your souls.
So be doers of the Word, and not listeners only, deceiving yourselves.
For if anyone is a listener of the Word, but not also a doer, he is comparable to a man gazing into a mirror upon the face that he was born with;
and after considering himself, he went away and promptly forgot what he had seen.
But he who gazes upon the perfect law of liberty, and who remains in it, is not a forgetful hearer, but instead a doer of the work. He shall be blessed in what he does.
But if anyone considers himself to be religious, but he does not restrain his tongue, but instead seduces his own heart: such a one’s religion is vanity.
This is religion, clean and undefiled before God the Father: to visit orphans and widows in their tribulations, and to keep yourself immaculate, apart from this age.
My brothers, within the glorious faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, do not choose to show favoritism toward persons.
For if a man has entered your assembly having a gold ring and splendid apparel, and if a poor man has also entered, in dirty clothing,
and if you are then attentive to the one who is clothed in excellent apparel, so that you say to him, “You may sit in this good place,” but you say to the poor man, “You stand over there,” or, “Sit below my footstool,”
are you not judging within yourselves, and have you not become judges with unjust thoughts?
My most beloved brothers, listen. Has not God chosen the poor in this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom that God has promised to those who love him?
But you have dishonored the poor. Are not the rich the ones who oppress you through power? And are not they the ones who drag you to judgment?
Are not they the ones who blaspheme the good name which has been invoked over you?
So if you perfect the regal law, according to the Scriptures, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself,” then you do well.
But if you show favoritism to persons, then you commit a sin, having been convicted again by the law as transgressors.
Now whoever has observed the whole law, yet who offends in one matter, has become guilty of all.
For he who said, “You shall not commit adultery,” also said, “You shall not kill.” So if you do not commit adultery, but you kill, you have become a transgressor of the law.
So speak and act just as you are beginning to be judged, by the law of liberty.
For judgment is without mercy toward him who has not shown mercy. But mercy exalts itself above judgment.
My brothers, what benefit is there if someone claims to have faith, but he does not have works? How would faith be able to save him?
So if a brother or sister is naked and daily in need of food,
and if anyone of you were to say to them: “Go in peace, keep warm and nourished,” and yet not give them the things that are necessary for the body, of what benefit is this?
Thus even faith, if it does not have works, is dead, in and of itself.
Now someone may say: “You have faith, and I have works.” Show me your faith without works! But I will show you my faith by means of works.
You believe that there is one God. You do well. But the demons also believe, and they tremble greatly.
So then, are you willing to understand, O foolish man, that faith without works is dead?
Was not our father Abraham justified by means of works, by offering his son Isaac upon the altar?
Do you see that faith was cooperating with his works, and that by means of works faith was brought to fulfillment?
And so the Scripture was fulfilled which says: “Abraham believed God, and it was reputed to him unto justice.” And so he was called the friend of God.
Do you see that a man is justified by means of works, and not by faith alone?
Similarly also, Rahab, the harlot, was she not justified by works, by receiving the messengers and sending them out through another way?
For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead.
My brothers, not many of you should choose to become teachers, knowing that you shall receive a stricter judgment.
For we all offend in many ways. If anyone does not offend in word, he is a perfect man. And he is then able, as if with a bridle, to lead the whole body around.
For so we put bridles into the mouths of horses, in order to submit them to our will, and so we turn their whole body around.
Consider also the ships, which, though they are great and may be driven by strong winds, yet they are turned around with a small rudder, to be directed to wherever the strength of the pilot might will.
So also the tongue certainly is a small part, but it moves great things. Consider that a small fire can set ablaze a great forest.
And so the tongue is like a fire, comprising all iniquity. The tongue, stationed in the midst of our body, can defile the entire body and inflame the wheel of our nativity, setting a fire from Hell.
For the nature of all beasts and birds and serpents and others is ruled over, and has been ruled over, by human nature.
But no man is able to rule over the tongue, a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
By it we bless God the Father, and by it we speak evil of men, who have been made in the likeness of God.
From the same mouth proceeds blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so!
Does a fountain emit, out of the same opening, both sweet and bitter water?
My brothers, can the fig tree yield grapes? Or the vine, figs? Then neither is salt water able to produce fresh water.
Who is wise and well-taught among you? Let him show, by means of good conversation, his work in the meekness of wisdom.
But if you hold a bitter zeal, and if there is contention in your hearts, then do not boast and do not be liars against the truth.
For this is not wisdom, descending from above, but rather it is earthly, beastly, and diabolical.
For wherever envy and contention is, there too is inconstancy and every depraved work.
But within the wisdom that is from above, certainly, chastity is first, and next peacefulness, meekness, openness, consenting to what is good, a plenitude of mercy and good fruits, not judging, without falseness.
And so the fruit of justice is sown in peace by those who make peace.
Where do wars and contentions among you come from? Is it not from this: from your own desires, which battle within your members?
You desire, and you do not have. You envy and you kill, and you are unable to obtain. You argue and you fight, and you do not have, because you do not ask.
You ask and you do not receive, because you ask badly, so that you may use it toward your own desires.
You adulterers! Do you not know that the friendship of this world is hostile to God? Therefore, whoever has chosen to be a friend of this world has been made into an enemy of God.
Or do you think that Scripture says in vain: “The spirit which lives within you desires unto envy?”
But he gives a greater grace. Therefore he says: “God resists the arrogant, but he gives grace to the humble.”
Therefore, be subject to God. But resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners! And purify your hearts, you duplicitous souls!
Be afflicted: mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned into mourning, and your gladness into sorrow.
Be humbled in the sight of the Lord, and he will exalt you.
Brothers, do not choose to slander one another. Whoever slanders his brother, or whoever judges his brother, slanders the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge.
There is one lawgiver and one judge. He is able to destroy, and he is able to set free.
But who are you to judge your neighbor? Consider this, you who say, “Today or tomorrow we will go into that city, and certainly we will spend a year there, and we will do business, and we will make our profit,”
consider that you do not know what will be tomorrow.
For what is your life? It is a mist that appears for a brief time, and afterwards will vanish away. So what you ought to say is: “If the Lord wills,” or, “If we live,” we will do this or that.
But now you exult in your arrogance. All such exultation is wicked.
Therefore, he who knows that he ought to do a good thing, and does not do it, for him it is a sin.
Act now, you who are wealthy! Weep and wail in your miseries, which will soon come upon you!
Your riches have been corrupted, and your garments have been eaten by moths.
Your gold and silver have rusted, and their rust will be a testimony against you, and it will eat away at your flesh like fire. You have stored up wrath for yourselves unto the last days.
Consider the pay of the workers who reaped your fields: it has been misappropriated by you; it cries out. And their cry has entered into the ears of the Lord of hosts.
You have feasted upon the earth, and you have nourished your hearts with luxuries, unto the day of slaughter.
You led away and killed the Just One, and he did not resist you.
Therefore, be patient, brothers, until the advent of the Lord. Consider that the farmer anticipates the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently, until he receives the early and the late rains.
Therefore, you too should be patient and should strengthen your hearts. For the advent of the Lord draws near.
Brothers, do not complain against one another, so that you may not be judged. Behold, the judge stands before the door.
My brothers, consider the Prophets, who spoke in the name of the Lord, as an example of departing from evil, of labor, and of patience.
Consider that we beatify those who have endured. You have heard of the patient suffering of Job. And you have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is merciful and compassionate.
But before all things, my brothers, do not choose to swear, neither by heaven, nor by the earth, nor in any other oath. But let your word ‘Yes’ be yes, and your word ‘No’ be no, so that you may not fall under judgment.
Is any of you sad? Let him pray. Is he even-tempered? Let him sing psalms.
Is anyone ill among you? Let him bring in the priests of the Church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
And a prayer of faith will save the infirm, and the Lord will alleviate him. And if he has sins, these will be forgiven him.
Therefore, confess your sins to one another, and pray for one another, so that you may be saved. For the unremitting prayer of a just person prevails over many things.
Elijah was a mortal man like us, and in prayer he prayed that it would not rain upon the earth. And it did not rain for three years and six months.
And he prayed again. And the heavens gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit.
My brothers, if anyone of you strays from the truth, and if someone converts him,
he ought to know that whoever causes a sinner to be converted from the error of his ways will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins.
1 Peter 1:1	Peter, Apostle of Jesus Christ, to the newly-arrived elect of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
1 Peter 1:2	in accord with the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, with the obedience and the sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: May grace and peace be multiplied for you.
1 Peter 1:3	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy has regenerated us into a living hope, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead:
1 Peter 1:4	unto an incorruptible and undefiled and unfading inheritance, which is reserved for you in heaven.
1 Peter 1:5	By the power of God, you are guarded through faith for a salvation which is ready to be revealed in the end time.
1 Peter 1:6	In this, you should exult, if now, for a brief time, it is necessary to be made sorrowful by various trials,
1 Peter 1:7	so that the testing of your faith, which is much more precious than gold tested by fire, may be found in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
1 Peter 1:8	For though you have not seen him, you love him. In him also, though you do not see him, you now believe. And in believing, you shall exult with an inexpressible and glorious joy,
1 Peter 1:9	returning with the goal of your faith, the salvation of souls.
1 Peter 1:10	About this salvation, the prophets inquired and diligently searched, those who prophesied about the future grace in you,
1 Peter 1:11	inquiring as to what type of condition was signified to them by the Spirit of Christ, when foretelling those sufferings that are in Christ, as well as the subsequent glories.
1 Peter 1:12	To them, it was revealed that they were ministering, not for themselves, but for you those things which have now been announced to you through those who have preached the Gospel to you, through the Holy Spirit, who was sent down from heaven to the One upon whom the Angels desire to gaze.
1 Peter 1:13	For this reason, gird the waist of your mind, be sober, and hope perfectly in the grace that is offered to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ.
1 Peter 1:14	Be like sons of obedience, not conforming to the desires of your former ignorance,
1 Peter 1:15	but in accord with him who has called you: the Holy One. And in every behavior, you yourself must be holy,
1 Peter 1:16	for it is written: “You shall be holy, for I am Holy.”
1 Peter 1:17	And if you invoke as Father him who, without showing favoritism to persons, judges according to each one’s work, then act in fear during the time of your sojourning here.
1 Peter 1:18	For you know that it was not with corruptible gold or silver that you were redeemed away from your useless behavior in the traditions of your fathers,
1 Peter 1:19	but it was with the precious blood of Christ, an immaculate and undefiled lamb,
1 Peter 1:20	foreknown, certainly, before the foundation of the world, and made manifest in these latter times for your sake.
1 Peter 1:21	Through him, you have been faithful to God, who raised him up from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope would be in God.
1 Peter 1:22	So chastise your souls with the obedience of charity, in fraternal love, and love one another from a simple heart, attentively.
1 Peter 1:23	For you have been born again, not from corruptible seed, but from what is incorruptible, from the Word of God, living and remaining for all eternity.
1 Peter 1:24	For all flesh is like the grass and all its glory is like the flower of the grass. The grass withers and its flower falls away.
1 Peter 1:25	But the Word of the Lord endures for eternity. And this is the Word that has been evangelized to you.
1 Peter 2:1	Therefore, set aside all malice and all deceitfulness, as well as falseness and envy and every detraction.
1 Peter 2:2	Like newborn infants, desire the milk of reasonableness without guile, so that by this you may increase unto salvation,
1 Peter 2:3	if it is true that you have tasted that the Lord is sweet.
1 Peter 2:4	And approaching him as if he were a living stone, rejected by men, certainly, but elect and honored by God,
1 Peter 2:5	be also yourselves like living stones, built upon him, a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, so as to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
1 Peter 2:6	Because of this, Scripture asserts: “Behold, I am setting in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious. And whoever will have believed in him will not be confounded.”
1 Peter 2:7	Therefore, to you who believe, he is honor. But to those who do not believe, the stone which the builders have rejected, the same has been made into the head of the corner,
1 Peter 2:8	and a stone of offense, and a rock of scandal, to those who are offended by the Word; neither do they believe, though they also have been built upon him.
1 Peter 2:9	But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, an acquired people, so that you may announce the virtues of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.
1 Peter 2:10	Though in past times you were not a people, yet now you are the people of God. Though you had not obtained mercy, yet now you have obtained mercy.
1 Peter 2:11	Most beloved, I beg you, as new arrivals and sojourners, to abstain from carnal desires, which battle against the soul.
1 Peter 2:12	Keep your behavior among the Gentiles to what is good, so that, when they slander you as if you were evildoers, they may, by the good works that are seen in you, glorify God on the day of visitation.
1 Peter 2:13	Therefore, be subject to every human creature because of God, whether it is to the king as preeminent,
1 Peter 2:14	or to leaders as having been sent from him for vindication over evildoers, it is truly for the praise of what is good.
1 Peter 2:15	For such is the will of God, that by doing good you may bring about the silence of imprudent and ignorant men,
1 Peter 2:16	in an open manner, and not as if cloaking malice with liberty, but like servants of God.
1 Peter 2:17	Honor everyone. Love brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king.
1 Peter 2:18	Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and meek, but also to the unruly.
1 Peter 2:19	For this is grace: when, because of God, a man willingly endures sorrows, suffering injustice.
1 Peter 2:20	For what glory is there, if you sin and then suffer a beating? But if you do well and suffer patiently, this is grace with God.
1 Peter 2:21	For you have been called to this because Christ also suffered for us, leaving you an example, so that you would follow in his footsteps.
1 Peter 2:22	He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth.
1 Peter 2:23	And when evil was spoken against him, he did not speak evil. When he suffered, he did not threaten. Then he handed himself over to him who judged him unjustly.
1 Peter 2:24	He himself bore our sins in his body upon the tree, so that we, having died to sin, would live for justice. By his wounds, you have been healed.
1 Peter 2:25	For you were like wandering sheep. But now you have been turned back toward the Pastor and the Bishop of your souls.
1 Peter 3:1	Similarly also, wives should be subject to their husbands, so that, even if some do not believe the Word, they may benefit without the Word, through the behavior of these wives,
1 Peter 3:2	as they consider with fear your chaste behavior.
1 Peter 3:3	For you, there should be no unnecessary adornment of the hair, or surrounding with gold, or the wearing of ornate clothing.
1 Peter 3:4	Instead, you should be a hidden person of the heart, with the incorruptibility of a quiet and a meek spirit, rich in the sight of God.
1 Peter 3:5	For in this way, in past times also, holy women adorned themselves, hoping in God, being subject to their own husbands.
1 Peter 3:6	For so Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord. You are her daughters, well-behaved and unafraid of any disturbance.
1 Peter 3:7	Similarly, you husbands should live with them in accord with knowledge, bestowing honor on the female as the weaker vessel and as co-heirs of the life of grace, so that your prayers may not be hindered.
1 Peter 3:8	And finally, may you all be of one mind: compassionate, loving brotherhood, merciful, meek, humble,
1 Peter 3:9	not repaying evil with evil, nor slander with slander, but, to the contrary, repaying with blessings. For to this you have been called, so that you may possess the inheritance of a blessing.
1 Peter 3:10	For whoever wants to love life and to see good days should restrain his tongue from evil, and his lips, so that they utter no deceit.
1 Peter 3:11	Let him turn away from evil, and do good. Let him seek peace, and pursue it.
1 Peter 3:12	For the eyes of the Lord are upon the just, and his ears are with their prayers, but the countenance of the Lord is upon those who do evil.
1 Peter 3:13	And who is it who can harm you, if you are zealous in what is good?
1 Peter 3:14	And yet, even when you suffer something for the sake of justice, you are blessed. So then, do not be afraid with their fear, and do not be disturbed.
1 Peter 3:15	But sanctify Christ the Lord in your hearts, being always ready to give an explanation to all who ask you the reason for that hope which is in you.
1 Peter 3:16	But do so with meekness and fear, having a good conscience, so that, in whatever matter they may slander you, they shall be confounded, since they falsely accuse your good behavior in Christ.
1 Peter 3:17	For it is better to suffer for doing good, if it is the will of God, than for doing evil.
1 Peter 3:18	For Christ also died once for our sins, the Just One on behalf of the unjust, so that he might offer us to God, having died, certainly, in the flesh, but having been enlivened by the Spirit.
1 Peter 3:19	And in the Spirit, he preached to those who were in prison, going to those souls
1 Peter 3:20	who had been unbelieving in past times, while they waited for the patience of God, as in the days of Noah, when the ark was being built. In that ark, a few, that is, eight souls, were saved by water.
1 Peter 3:21	And now you also are saved, in a similar manner, by baptism, not by the testimony of sordid flesh, but by the examination of a good conscience in God, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
1 Peter 3:22	He is at the right hand of God, devouring death, so that we may be made heirs to eternal life. And since he has journeyed to heaven, the Angels and powers and virtues are subject to him.
1 Peter 4:1	Since Christ has suffered in the flesh, you also should be armed with the same intention. For he who suffers in the flesh desists from sin,
1 Peter 4:2	so that now he may live, for the remainder of his time in the flesh, not by the desires of men, but by the will of God.
1 Peter 4:3	For the time that has passed is sufficient to have fulfilled the will of the Gentiles, those who have walked in luxuries, lusts, intoxication, feasting, drinking, and the illicit worship of idols.
1 Peter 4:4	About this, they wonder why you do not rush with them into the same confusion of indulgences, blaspheming.
1 Peter 4:5	But they must render an account to him who is prepared to judge the living and the dead.
1 Peter 4:6	For because of this, the Gospel was also preached to the dead, so that they might be judged, certainly, just like men in the flesh, yet also, so that they might live according to God, in the Spirit.
1 Peter 4:7	But the end of everything draws near. And so, be prudent, and be vigilant in your prayers.
1 Peter 4:8	But, before all things, have a constant mutual charity among yourselves. For love covers a multitude of sins.
1 Peter 4:9	Show hospitality to one another without complaining.
1 Peter 4:10	Just as each of you has received grace, minister in the same way to one another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
1 Peter 4:11	When anyone speaks, it should be like words of God. When anyone ministers, it should be from the virtue that God provides, so that in all things God may be honored through Jesus Christ. To him is glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.
1 Peter 4:12	Most beloved, do not choose to sojourn in the passion which is a temptation to you, as if something new might happen to you.
1 Peter 4:13	But instead, commune in the Passion of Christ, and be glad that, when his glory will be revealed, you too may rejoice with exultation.
1 Peter 4:14	If you are reproached for the name of Christ, you will be blessed, because that which is of the honor, glory, and power of God, and that which is of his Spirit, rests upon you.
1 Peter 4:15	But let none of you suffer for being a murderer, or a thief, or a slanderer, or one who covets what belongs to another.
1 Peter 4:16	But if one of you suffers for being a Christian, he should not be ashamed. Instead, he should glorify God in that name.
1 Peter 4:17	For it is time that judgment begin at the house of God. And if it is first from us, what shall be the end of those who do not believe the Gospel of God?
1 Peter 4:18	And if the just man will scarcely be saved, where will the impious and the sinner appear?
1 Peter 4:19	Therefore, too, let those who suffer according to the will of God commend their souls by good deeds to the faithful Creator.
1 Peter 5:1	Therefore, I beg the elders who are among you, as one who is also an elder and a witness of the Passion of Christ, who also shares in that glory which is to be revealed in the future:
1 Peter 5:2	pasture the flock of God that is among you, providing for it, not as a requirement, but willingly, in accord with God, and not for the sake of tainted profit, but freely,
1 Peter 5:3	not so as to dominate by means of the clerical state, but so as to be formed into a flock from the heart.
1 Peter 5:4	And when the Leader of pastors will have appeared, you shall secure an unfading crown of glory.
1 Peter 5:5	Similarly, young persons, be subject to the elders. And infuse all humility among one another, for God resists the arrogant, but to the humble he gives grace.
1 Peter 5:6	And so, be humbled under the powerful hand of God, so that he may exalt you in the time of visitation.
1 Peter 5:7	Cast all your cares upon him, for he takes care of you.
1 Peter 5:8	Be sober and vigilant. For your adversary, the devil, is like a roaring lion, traveling around and seeking those whom he might devour.
1 Peter 5:9	Resist him by being strong in faith, being aware that the same passions afflict those who are your brothers in the world.
1 Peter 5:10	But the God of all grace, who has called us to his eternal glory in Christ Jesus, will himself perfect, confirm, and establish us, after a brief time of suffering.
1 Peter 5:11	To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.
1 Peter 5:12	I have written briefly, through Sylvanus, whom I consider to be a faithful brother to you, begging and testifying that this is the true grace of God, in which you have been established.
1 Peter 5:13	The Church which is in Babylon, elect together with you, greets you, as does my son, Mark.
1 Peter 5:14	Greet one another with a holy kiss. Grace be to all of you who are in Christ Jesus. Amen.
2 Peter 1:1	Simon Peter, servant and Apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have been allotted an equal faith with us in the justice of our God and in our Savior Jesus Christ.
2 Peter 1:2	Grace to you. And may peace be fulfilled according to the plan of God and of Christ Jesus our Lord,
2 Peter 1:3	in the same manner that all things which are for life and piety have been given to us by his Divine virtue, through the plan of him who has called us to our own glory and virtue.
2 Peter 1:4	Through Christ, he has given us the greatest and most precious promises, so that by these things you may become sharers in the Divine Nature, fleeing from the corruption of that desire which is in the world.
2 Peter 1:5	But as for you, taking up every concern, minister virtue in your faith; and in virtue, knowledge;
2 Peter 1:6	and in knowledge, moderation; and in moderation, patience; and in patience, piety;
2 Peter 1:7	and in piety, love of brotherhood; and in love of brotherhood, charity.
2 Peter 1:8	For if these things are with you, and if they abound, they will cause you to be neither empty, nor without fruit, within the plan of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Peter 1:9	For he who does not have these things at hand is blind and groping, being forgetful of his purification from his former offenses.
2 Peter 1:10	Because of this, brothers, be all the more diligent, so that by good works you may make certain your calling and election. For in doing these things, you do not sin at any time.
2 Peter 1:11	For in this way, you shall be provided abundantly with an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
2 Peter 1:12	For this reason, I will always begin to admonish you about these things, even though, certainly, you know them and are confirmed in the present truth.
2 Peter 1:13	But I consider it just, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up with admonishments.
2 Peter 1:14	For it is certain that the laying to rest of this, my tabernacle, is approaching swiftly, just as our Lord Jesus Christ has also indicated to me.
2 Peter 1:15	Therefore, I will present a work for you to have, so that, frequently after my passing, you may call to mind these things.
2 Peter 1:16	For it was not by following fanciful doctrines that we made known to you the power and presence of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were made eyewitnesses of his greatness.
2 Peter 1:17	For he received honor and glory from God the Father, whose voice descended to him from the magnificent glory: “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Listen to him.”
2 Peter 1:18	We also heard this voice conveyed from heaven, when we were with him on the holy mountain.
2 Peter 1:19	And so, we have an even firmer prophetic word, to which you would do well to listen, as to a light shining within a dark place, until the day dawns, and the daystar rises, in your hearts.
2 Peter 1:20	Understand this first: that every prophecy of Scripture does not result from one’s own interpretation.
2 Peter 1:21	For prophecy was not conveyed by human will at any time. Instead, holy men were speaking about God while inspired by the Holy Spirit.
2 Peter 2:1	But there were also false prophets among the people, just as there will be among you lying teachers, who will introduce divisions of perdition, and they will deny him who bought them, the Lord, bringing upon themselves swift destruction.
2 Peter 2:2	And many persons will follow their indulgences; through such persons, the way of truth will be blasphemed.
2 Peter 2:3	And in avarice, they will negotiate about you with false words. Their judgment, in the near future, is not delayed, and their perdition does not sleep.
2 Peter 2:4	For God did not spare those Angels who sinned, but instead delivered them, as if dragged down by infernal ropes, into the torments of the underworld, to be reserved unto judgment.
2 Peter 2:5	And he did not spare the original world, but he preserved the eighth one, Noah, the herald of justice, bringing the flood upon the world of the impious.
2 Peter 2:6	And he reduced the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes, condemning them to be overthrown, setting them as an example to anyone who might act impiously.
2 Peter 2:7	And he rescued a just man, Lot, who was oppressed by the unjust and lewd behavior of the wicked.
2 Peter 2:8	For in seeing and in hearing, he was just, though he lived with those who, from day to day, crucified the just soul with works of iniquity.
2 Peter 2:9	Thus, the Lord knows how to rescue the pious from trials, and how to reserve the iniquitous for torments on the day of judgment;
2 Peter 2:10	even more so, those who walk after the flesh in unclean desires, and who despise proper authority. Boldly pleasing themselves, they do not dread to introduce divisions by blaspheming;
2 Peter 2:11	whereas the Angels, who are greater in strength and virtue, did not bring against themselves such a deplorable judgment.
2 Peter 2:12	Yet truly, these others, like irrational beasts, naturally fall into traps and into ruin by blaspheming whatever they do not understand, and so they shall perish in their corruption,
2 Peter 2:13	receiving the reward of injustice, the fruition of valuing the delights of the day: defilements and stains, overflowing with self-indulgences, taking pleasure in their feasts with you,
2 Peter 2:14	having eyes full of adultery and of incessant offenses, luring unstable souls, having a heart well-trained in avarice, sons of curses!
2 Peter 2:15	Abandoning the straight path, they wandered astray, having followed the way of Balaam, the son of Beor, who loved the wages of iniquity.
2 Peter 2:16	Yet truly, he had a correction of his madness: the mute animal under the yoke, which, by speaking with a human voice, forbid the folly of the prophet.
2 Peter 2:17	These ones are like fountains without water, and like clouds stirred up by whirlwinds. For them, the mist of darkness is reserved.
2 Peter 2:18	For, speaking with the arrogance of vanity, they lure, by the desires of fleshly pleasures, those who are fleeing to some extent, who are being turned from error,
2 Peter 2:19	promising them freedoms, while they themselves are the servants of corruption. For by whatever a man is overcome, of this also is he the servant.
2 Peter 2:20	For if, after taking refuge from the defilements of the world in the understanding of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they again become entangled and overcome by these things, then the latter state becomes worse than the former.
2 Peter 2:21	For it would have been better for them not to have known the way of justice than, after acknowledging it, to turn away from that holy commandment which was handed on to them.
2 Peter 2:22	For the truth of the proverb has happened to them: The dog has returned to his own vomit, and the washed sow has returned to her wallowing in the mud.
2 Peter 3:1	Consider, most beloved, this second epistle which I am writing to you, in which I stir up, by admonition, your sincere mind,
2 Peter 3:2	so that you may be mindful of those words that I preached to you from the holy prophets, and of the precepts of the Apostles of your Lord and Savior.
2 Peter 3:3	Know this first: that in the last days there will arrive deceitful mockers, walking according to their own desires,
2 Peter 3:4	saying: “Where is his promise or his advent? For from the time that the fathers have slept, all things have continued just as they were from the beginning of creation.”
2 Peter 3:5	But they willfully ignore this: that the heavens existed first, and that the earth, from water and through water, was established by the Word of God.
2 Peter 3:6	By water, the former world then, having been inundated with water, perished.
2 Peter 3:7	But the heavens and the earth that exist now were restored by the same Word, being reserved unto fire on the day of judgment, and unto the perdition of impious men.
2 Peter 3:8	Yet truly, let this one thing not escape notice, most beloved, that with the Lord one day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years is like one day.
2 Peter 3:9	The Lord is not delaying his promise, as some imagine, but he does act patiently for your sake, not wanting anyone to perish, but wanting all to be turned back to penance.
2 Peter 3:10	Then the day of the Lord shall arrive like a thief. On that day, the heavens shall pass away with great violence, and truly the elements shall be dissolved with heat; then the earth, and the works that are within it, shall be completely burned up.
2 Peter 3:11	Therefore, since all these things will be dissolved, what kind of people ought you to be? In behavior and in piety, be holy,
2 Peter 3:12	waiting for, and hurrying toward, the advent of the day of the Lord, by which the burning heavens shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt from the heat of the fire.
2 Peter 3:13	Yet truly, in accord with his promises, we are looking forward to the new heavens and the new earth, in which justice lives.
2 Peter 3:14	Therefore, most beloved, while awaiting these things, be diligent, so that you may be found to be immaculate and unassailable before him, in peace.
2 Peter 3:15	And let the longsuffering of our Lord be considered salvation, as also our most beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, has written to you,
2 Peter 3:16	just as he also spoke in all of his epistles about these things. In these, there are certain things which are difficult to understand, which the unlearned and the unsteady distort, as they also do the other Scriptures, to their own destruction.
2 Peter 3:17	But since you, brothers, know these things beforehand, be cautious, lest by being drawn into the error of the foolish, you may fall away from your own steadfastness.
2 Peter 3:18	Yet truly, increase in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory, both now and in the day of eternity. Amen.
1 John 1:1	He who was from the beginning, whom we have heard, whom we have seen with our eyes, upon whom we have gazed, and whom our hands have certainly touched: He is the Word of Life.
1 John 1:2	And that Life has been made manifest. And we have seen, and we testify, and we announce to you: the Eternal Life, who was with the Father, and who appeared to us.
1 John 1:3	He whom we have seen and heard, we announce to you, so that you, too, may have fellowship with us, and so that our fellowship may be with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ.
1 John 1:4	And this we write to you, so that you may rejoice, and so that your joy may be full.
1 John 1:5	And this is the announcement which we have heard from him, and which we announce to you: that God is light, and in him there is no darkness.
1 John 1:6	If we claim that we have fellowship with him, and yet we walk in darkness, then we are lying and not telling the truth.
1 John 1:7	But if we walk in the light, just as he also is in the light, then we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanses us from all sin.
1 John 1:8	If we claim that we have no sin, then we are deceiving ourselves and the truth is not in us.
1 John 1:9	If we confess our sins, then he is faithful and just, so as to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all iniquity.
1 John 1:10	If we claim that we have not sinned, then we make him a liar, and his Word is not in us.
1 John 2:1	My little sons, this I write to you, so that you may not sin. But if anyone has sinned, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the Just One.
1 John 2:2	And he is the propitiation for our sins. And not only for our sins, but also for those of the whole world.
1 John 2:3	And we can be sure that we have known him by this: if we observe his commandments.
1 John 2:4	Whoever claims that he knows him, and yet does not keep his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him.
1 John 2:5	But whoever keeps his word, truly in him the charity of God is perfected. And by this we know that we are in him.
1 John 2:6	Whoever declares himself to remain in him, ought to walk just as he himself walked.
1 John 2:7	Most beloved, I am not writing to you a new commandment, but the old commandment, which you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the Word, which you have heard.
1 John 2:8	Then too, I am writing to you a new commandment, which is the Truth in him and in you. For the darkness has passed away, and the true Light is now shining.
1 John 2:9	Whoever declares himself to be in the light, and yet hates his brother, is in the darkness even now.
1 John 2:10	Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and there is no cause of offense in him.
1 John 2:11	But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness, and in darkness he walks, and he does not know where he is going. For the darkness has blinded his eyes.
1 John 2:12	I am writing to you, little sons, because your sins are forgiven for the sake of his name.
1 John 2:13	I am writing to you, fathers, because you have known him who is from the beginning. I am writing to you, adolescents, because you have overcome the evil one.
1 John 2:14	I am writing to you, little children, because you have known the Father. I am writing to you, young men, because you are strong, and the Word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one.
1 John 2:15	Do not choose to love the world, nor the things that are in the world. If anyone loves the world, the charity of the Father is not in him.
1 John 2:16	For all that is in the world is the desire of the flesh, and the desire of the eyes, and the arrogance of a life which is not of the Father, but is of the world.
1 John 2:17	And the world is passing away, with its desire. But whoever does the will of God abides unto eternity.
1 John 2:18	Little sons, it is the last hour. And, as you have heard that the Antichrist is coming, so now many antichrists have arrived. By this, we know that it is the last hour.
1 John 2:19	They went out from among us, but they were not of us. For, if they had been of us, certainly they would have remained with us. But in this way, it is made manifest that none of them are of us.
1 John 2:20	Yet you have the anointing of the Holy One, and you know everything.
1 John 2:21	I have not written to you as to ones who are ignorant of the truth, but as to ones who know the truth. For no lie is of the truth.
1 John 2:22	Who is a liar, other than he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This one is the Antichrist, who denies the Father and the Son.
1 John 2:23	No one who denies the Son also has the Father. Whoever confesses the Son, also has the Father.
1 John 2:24	As for you, let what you have heard from the beginning remain in you. If what you have heard from the beginning remains in you, then you, too, shall abide in the Son and in the Father.
1 John 2:25	And this is the Promise, which he himself has promised to us: Eternal Life.
1 John 2:26	I have written these things to you, because of those who would seduce you.
1 John 2:27	But as for you, let the Anointing that you have received from him abide in you. And so, you have no need of anyone to teach you. For his Anointing teaches you about everything, and it is the truth, and it is not a lie. And just as his Anointing has taught you, abide in him.
1 John 2:28	And now, little sons, abide in him, so that when he appears, we may have faith, and we may not be confounded by him at his advent.
1 John 2:29	If you know that he is just, then know, too, that all who do what is just are born of him.
1 John 3:1	See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we would be called, and would become, the sons of God. Because of this, the world does not know us, for it did not know him.
1 John 3:2	Most beloved, we are now the sons of God. But what we shall be then has not yet appeared. We know that when he does appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is.
1 John 3:3	And everyone who holds this hope in him, keeps himself holy, just as he also is holy.
1 John 3:4	Everyone who commits a sin, also commits iniquity. For sin is iniquity.
1 John 3:5	And you know that he appeared in order that he might take away our sins. For in him there is no sin.
1 John 3:6	Everyone who abides in him does not sin. For whoever sins has not seen him, and has not known him.
1 John 3:7	Little sons, let no one deceive you. Whoever does justice is just, even as he also is just.
1 John 3:8	Whoever commits sin is of the devil. For the devil sins from the beginning. For this reason, the Son of God appeared, so that he might eradicate the works of the devil.
1 John 3:9	All those who have been born of God do not commit sin. For the offspring of God abides in them, and he is not able to sin, because he was born of God.
1 John 3:10	In this way, the sons of God are made manifest, and also the sons of the devil. Everyone who is not just, is not of God, as also anyone who does not love his brother.
1 John 3:11	For this is the announcement that you heard from the beginning: that you should love one another.
1 John 3:12	Do not be like Cain, who was of the evil one, and who killed his brother. And why did he kill him? Because his own works were wicked, but his brother’s works were just.
1 John 3:13	If the world hates you, brothers, do not be surprised.
1 John 3:14	We know that we have passed from death to life. For we love as brothers. Whoever does not love, abides in death.
1 John 3:15	Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding within him.
1 John 3:16	We know the love of God in this way: because he laid down his life for us. And so, we must lay down our lives for our brothers.
1 John 3:17	Whoever possesses the goods of this world, and sees his brother to be in need, and yet closes his heart to him: in what way does the love of God abide in him?
1 John 3:18	My little sons, let us not love in words only, but in works and in truth.
1 John 3:19	In this way, we will know that we are of the truth, and we will commend our hearts in his sight.
1 John 3:20	For even if our heart reproaches us, God is greater than our heart, and he knows all things.
1 John 3:21	Most beloved, if our heart does not reproach us, we can have confidence toward God;
1 John 3:22	and whatever we shall request of him, we shall receive from him. For we keep his commandments, and we do the things that are pleasing in his sight.
1 John 3:23	And this is his commandment: that we should believe in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ, and love one another, just as he has commanded us.
1 John 3:24	And those who keep his commandments abide in him, and he in them. And we know that he abides in us by this: by the Spirit, whom he has given to us.
1 John 4:1	Most beloved, do not be willing to believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see if they are of God. For many false prophets have gone out into the world.
1 John 4:2	The Spirit of God may be known in this way. Every spirit who confesses that Jesus Christ has arrived in the flesh is of God;
1 John 4:3	and every spirit who contradicts Jesus is not of God. And this one is the Antichrist, the one that you have heard is coming, and even now he is in the world.
1 John 4:4	Little sons, you are of God, and so you have overcome him. For he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world.
1 John 4:5	They are of the world. Therefore, they speak about the world, and the world listens to them.
1 John 4:6	We are of God. Whoever knows God, listens to us. Whoever is not of God, does not listen to us. In this way, we know the Spirit of truth from the spirit of error.
1 John 4:7	Most beloved, let us love one another. For love is of God. And everyone who loves is born of God and knows God.
1 John 4:8	Whoever does not love, does not know God. For God is love.
1 John 4:9	The love of God was made apparent to us in this way: that God sent his only-begotten Son into the world, so that we might live through him.
1 John 4:10	In this is love: not as if we had loved God, but that he first loved us, and so he sent his Son as a propitiation for our sins.
1 John 4:11	Most beloved, if God has so loved us, we also ought to love one another.
1 John 4:12	No one has ever seen God. But if we love one another, God abides in us, and his love is perfected in us.
1 John 4:13	In this way, we know that we abide in him, and he in us: because he has given to us from his Spirit.
1 John 4:14	And we have seen, and we testify, that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world.
1 John 4:15	Whoever has confessed that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God.
1 John 4:16	And we have known and believed the love that God has for us. God is love. And he who abides in love, abides in God, and God in him.
1 John 4:17	In this way, the love of God is perfected with us, so that we may have confidence on the day of judgment. For as he is, so also are we, in this world.
1 John 4:18	Fear is not in love. Instead, perfect love casts out fear, for fear pertains to punishment. And whoever fears is not perfected in love.
1 John 4:19	Therefore, let us love God, for God first loved us.
1 John 4:20	If anyone says that he loves God, but hates his brother, then he is a liar. For he who does not love his brother, whom he does see, in what way can he love God, whom he does not see?
1 John 4:21	And this is the commandment that we have from God, that he who loves God must also love his brother.
1 John 5:1	Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ, is born of God. And everyone who loves God, who provides that birth, also loves him who has been born of God.
1 John 5:2	In this way, we know that we love those born of God: when we love God and do his commandments.
1 John 5:3	For this is the love of God: that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not heavy.
1 John 5:4	For all that is born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that overcomes the world: our faith.
1 John 5:5	Who is it that overcomes the world? Only he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God!
1 John 5:6	This is the One who came by water and blood: Jesus Christ. Not by water only, but by water and blood. And the Spirit is the One who testifies that the Christ is the Truth.
1 John 5:7	For there are Three who give testimony in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit. And these Three are One.
1 John 5:8	And there are three who give testimony on earth: the Spirit, and the water, and the blood. And these three are one.
1 John 5:9	If we accept the testimony of men, then the testimony of God is greater. For this is the testimony of God, which is greater: that he has testified about his Son.
1 John 5:10	Whoever believes in the Son of God, holds the testimony of God within himself. Whoever does not believe in the Son, makes him a liar, because he does not believe in the testimony which God has testified about his Son.
1 John 5:11	And this is the testimony which God has given to us: Eternal Life. And this Life is in his Son.
1 John 5:12	Whoever has the Son, has Life. Whoever does not have the Son, does not have Life.
1 John 5:13	I am writing this to you, so that you may know that you have Eternal Life: you who believe in the name of the Son of God.
1 John 5:14	And this is the confidence which we have toward God: that no matter what we shall request, in accord with his will, he hears us.
1 John 5:15	And we know that he hears us, no matter what we request; so we know that we can obtain the things that we request of him.
1 John 5:16	Anyone who realizes that his brother has sinned, with a sin that is not unto death, let him pray, and life shall be given to him who has sinned not unto death. There is a sin which is unto death. I am not saying that anyone should ask on behalf of that sin.
1 John 5:17	All that is iniquity is sin. But there is a sin unto death.
1 John 5:18	We know that everyone who is born of God does not sin. Instead, rebirth in God preserves him, and the evil one cannot touch him.
1 John 5:19	We know that we are of God, and that the entire world is established in wickedness.
1 John 5:20	And we know that the Son of God has arrived, and that he has given us understanding, so that we may know the true God, and so that we may remain in his true Son. This is the true God, and this is Eternal Life.
1 John 5:21	Little sons, keep yourselves from false worship. Amen.
2 John 1:1	The Elder to the Elect Lady, and those born of her, whom I love in the truth: and not I alone, but also all those who have known the truth,
2 John 1:2	because the truth which dwells in us shall be with us for eternity.
2 John 1:3	May grace, mercy, and peace be with you from God the Father, and from Christ Jesus, the Son of the Father, in truth and in love.
2 John 1:4	I was very glad because I discovered some of your sons walking in the truth, just as we received the commandment from the Father.
2 John 1:5	And now I petition you, Lady, not as if writing a new commandment to you, but instead that commandment which we have had from the beginning: that we love one another.
2 John 1:6	And this is love: that we walk according to his commandments. For this is the commandment that you have heard in the same way from the beginning, and in which you should walk.
2 John 1:7	For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess that Jesus Christ has arrived in the flesh. Such a one as this is a deceiver and an antichrist.
2 John 1:8	Be cautious for yourselves, lest you lose what you have accomplished, and so that, instead, you may receive a full reward.
2 John 1:9	Everyone who withdraws and does not remain in the doctrine of Christ, does not have God. Whoever remains in the doctrine, such a one as this has both the Father and the Son.
2 John 1:10	If anyone comes to you, and does not bring this doctrine, do not be willing to receive him into the house, and do not speak a greeting to him.
2 John 1:11	For whoever speaks a greeting to him, is speaking with his evil works.
2 John 1:12	I have much more to write to you, but I am not willing to do so through paper and ink. For I hope that I may be with you in the future, and that I may speak face to face, so that your joy may be full.
2 John 1:13	The sons of your Elect Sister greet you.
3 John 1:1	The Elder, to Gaius, most beloved, whom I love in the truth.
3 John 1:2	Most beloved, concerning everything, I make it my prayer that you may benefit by advancing and succeeding in whatever may be to the benefit of your soul.
3 John 1:3	I was very glad when the brothers arrived, and when they offered testimony to the truth in you, that you are walking in the truth.
3 John 1:4	I have no greater grace than this, when I hear that my sons are walking in the truth.
3 John 1:5	Most beloved, you should act faithfully in whatever you do for the brothers, and those who are sojourners;
3 John 1:6	they have given testimony to your charity in the sight of the Church. You would to well to lead these ones worthily to God.
3 John 1:7	For they set out, on behalf of his name, accepting nothing from the unbelievers.
3 John 1:8	Therefore, we must accept such as these, in order that we may cooperate with the truth.
3 John 1:9	As it happens, I had written to the church. But Diotrephes, who loves to bear the highest rank among them, would not accept us.
3 John 1:10	Because of this, when I come, I will admonish his works which he does, babbling against us with malicious words. And as if this were not sufficient for him, he himself does not receive the brothers. And those who do receive them, he hinders, and he ejects them from the church.
3 John 1:11	Most beloved, do not be willing to imitate what is evil; instead imitate what is good. Whoever does good is of God. Whoever does evil has not seen God.
3 John 1:12	Testimony is being given for Demetrius by everyone, and by the truth itself. And we also offer testimony. And you know that our testimony is true.
3 John 1:13	I had many things to write to you, but I am not willing, through ink and pen, to write to you.
3 John 1:14	Yet I hope to see you soon, and then we will speak face to face. Peace to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends by name.
