Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called as an Apostle, separated for the Gospel of God,
which he had promised beforehand, through his Prophets, in the Holy Scriptures,
about his Son, who was made for him from the offspring of David according to the flesh,
the Son of God, who was predestined in virtue according to the Spirit of sanctification from the resurrection of the dead, our Lord Jesus Christ,
through whom we have received grace and Apostleship, for the sake of his name, for the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles,
from whom you also have been called by Jesus Christ:
To all who are at Rome, the beloved of God, called as saints. Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
Certainly, I give thanks to my God, through Jesus Christ, first for all of you, because your faith is being announced throughout the entire world.
For God is my witness, whom I serve in my spirit by the Gospel of his Son, that without ceasing I have kept a remembrance of you
always in my prayers, pleading that in some way, at some time, I may have a prosperous journey, within the will of God, to come to you.
For I long to see you, so that I may impart to you a certain spiritual grace to strengthen you,
specifically, to be consoled together with you through that which is mutual: your faith and mine.
But I want you to know, brothers, that I have often intended to come to you, (though I have been hindered even to the present time) so that I might obtain some fruit among you also, just as also among the other Gentiles.
To the Greeks and to the uncivilized, to the wise and to the foolish, I am in debt.
So within me there is a prompting to evangelize to you also who are at Rome.
For I am not ashamed of the Gospel. For it is the power of God unto salvation for all believers, the Jew first, and the Greek.
For the justice of God is revealed within it, by faith unto faith, just as it was written: “For the just one lives by faith.”
For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven over every impiety and injustice among those men who fend off the truth of God with injustice.
For what is known about God is manifest in them. For God has manifested it to them.
For unseen things about him have been made conspicuous, since the creation of the world, being understood by the things that were made; likewise his everlasting virtue and divinity, so much so that they have no excuse.
For although they had known God, they did not glorify God, nor give thanks. Instead, they became weakened in their thoughts, and their foolish heart was obscured.
For, while proclaiming themselves to be wise, they became foolish.
And they exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for the likeness of an image of corruptible man, and of flying things, and of four-legged beasts, and of serpents.
For this reason, God handed them over to the desires of their own heart for impurity, so that they afflicted their own bodies with indignities among themselves.
And they exchanged the truth of God for a lie. And they worshipped and served the creature, rather than the Creator, who is blessed for all eternity. Amen.
Because of this, God handed them over to shameful passions. For example, their females have exchanged the natural use of the body for a use which is against nature.
And similarly, the males also, abandoning the natural use of females, have burned in their desires for one another: males doing with males what is disgraceful, and receiving within themselves the recompense that necessarily results from their error.
And since they did not prove to have God by knowledge, God handed them over to a morally depraved way of thinking, so that they might do those things which are not fitting:
having been completely filled with all iniquity, malice, fornication, avarice, wickedness; full of envy, murder, contention, deceit, spite, gossiping;
slanderous, hateful toward God, abusive, arrogant, self-exalting, devisers of evil, disobedient to parents,
foolish, disorderly; without affection, without fidelity, without mercy.
And these, though they had known the justice of God, did not understand that those who act in such a manner are deserving of death, and not only those who do these things, but also those who consent to what is done.
For this reason, O man, each one of you who judges is inexcusable. For by that which you judge another, you condemn yourself. For you do the same things that you judge.
For we know that the judgment of God is in accord with truth against those who do such things.
But, O man, when you judge those who do such things as you yourself also do, do you think that you will escape the judgment of God?
Or do you despise the riches of his goodness and patience and forbearance? Do you not know that the kindness of God is calling you to repentance?
But in accord with your hard and impenitent heart, you store up wrath for yourself, unto the day of wrath and of revelation by the just judgment of God.
For he will render to each one according to his works:
To those who, in accord with patient good works, seek glory and honor and incorruption, certainly, he will render eternal life.
But to those who are contentious and who do not acquiesce to the truth, but instead trust in iniquity, he will render wrath and indignation.
Tribulation and anguish are upon every soul of man that works evil: the Jew first, and also the Greek.
But glory and honor and peace are for all who do what is good: the Jew first, and also the Greek.
For there is no favoritism with God.
For whoever had sinned without the law, will perish without the law. And whoever had sinned in the law, will be judged by the law.
For it is not the hearers of the law who are just before God, but rather it is the doers of the law who shall be justified.
For when the Gentiles, who do not have the law, do by nature those things which are of the law, such persons, not having the law, are a law unto themselves.
For they reveal the work of the law written in their hearts, while their conscience renders testimony about them, and their thoughts within themselves also accuse or even defend them,
unto the day when God shall judge the hidden things of men, through Jesus Christ, according to my Gospel.
But if you are called by name a Jew, and you rest upon the law, and you find glory in God,
and you have known his will, and you demonstrate the more useful things, having been instructed by the law:
you become confident within yourself that you are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness,
an instructor to the foolish, a teacher to children, because you have a type of knowledge and truth in the law.
As a result, you teach others, but you do not teach yourself. You preach that men should not steal, but you yourself steal.
You speak against adultery, but you commit adultery. You abominate idols, but you commit sacrilege.
You would glory in the law, but through a betrayal of the law you dishonor God.
(For because of you the name of God is being blasphemed among the Gentiles, just as it was written.)
Certainly, circumcision is beneficial, if you observe the law. But if you are a betrayer of the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision.
And so, if the uncircumcised keep the justices of the law, shall not this lack of circumcision be counted as circumcision?
And that which is by nature uncircumcised, if it fulfills the law, should it not judge you, who by the letter and by circumcision are a betrayer of the law?
For a Jew is not he who seems so outwardly. Neither is circumcision that which seems so outwardly, in the flesh.
But a Jew is he who is so inwardly. And circumcision of the heart is in the spirit, not in the letter. For its praise is not of men, but of God.
So then, what more is the Jew, or what is the usefulness of circumcision?
Much in every way: First of all, certainly, because the eloquence of God was entrusted to them.
But what if some of them have not believed? Shall their unbelief nullify the faith of God? Let it not be so!
For God is truthful, but every man is deceitful; just as it was written: “Therefore, you are justified in your words, and you will prevail when you give judgment.”
But if even our injustice points to the justice of God, what shall we say? Could God be unfair for inflicting wrath?
(I am speaking in human terms.) Let it not be so! Otherwise, how would God judge this world?
For if the truth of God has abounded, through my falseness, unto his glory, why should I still be judged as such a sinner?
And should we not do evil, so that good may result? For so we have been slandered, and so some have claimed we said; their condemnation is just.
What is next? Should we try to excel ahead of them? By no means! For we have accused all Jews and Greeks to be under sin,
just as it was written: “There is no one who is just.
There is no one who understands. There is no one who seeks God.
All have gone astray; together they have become useless. There is no one who does good; there is not even one.
Their throat is an open sepulcher. With their tongues, they have been acting deceitfully. The venom of asps is under their lips.
Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness.
Their feet are swift to shed blood.
Grief and unhappiness are in their ways.
And the way of peace they have not known.
There is no fear of God before their eyes.”
But we know that whatever the law speaks, it speaks to those who are in the law, so that every mouth may be silenced and the entire world may be subject to God.
For in his presence no flesh shall be justified by the works of the law. For knowledge of sin is through the law.
But now, without the law, the justice of God, to which the law and the prophets have testified, has been made manifest.
And the justice of God, though the faith of Jesus Christ, is in all those and over all those who believe in him. For there is no distinction.
For all have sinned and all are in need of the glory of God.
We have been justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,
whom God has offered as a propitiation, through faith in his blood, to reveal his justice for the remission of the former offenses,
and by the forbearance of God, to reveal his justice in this time, so that he himself might be both the Just One and the Justifier of anyone who is of the faith of Jesus Christ.
So then, where is your self-exaltation? It is excluded. Through what law? That of works? No, but rather through the law of faith.
For we judge a man to be justified by faith, without the works of the law.
Is God of the Jews only and not also of the Gentiles? On the contrary, of the Gentiles also.
For One is the God who justifies circumcision by faith and uncircumcision through faith.
Are we then destroying the law through faith? Let it not be so! Instead, we are making the law stand.
So then, what shall we say that Abraham had achieved, who is our father according to the flesh?
For if Abraham was justified by works, he would have glory, but not with God.
For what does Scripture say? “Abram believed God, and it was reputed to him unto justice.”
But for he who works, wages are not accounted according to grace, but according to debt.
Yet truly, for he who does not work, but who believes in him who justifies the impious, his faith is reputed unto justice, according to the purpose of the grace of God.
Similarly, David also declares the blessedness of a man, to whom God brings justice without works:
“Blessed are they whose iniquities have been forgiven and whose sins have been covered.
Blessed is the man to whom the Lord has not imputed sin.”
Does this blessedness, then, remain only in the circumcised, or is it even in the uncircumcised? For we say that faith was reputed to Abraham unto justice.
But then how was it reputed? In circumcision or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
For he received the sign of circumcision as a symbol of the justice of that faith which exists apart from circumcision, so that he might be the father of all those who believe while uncircumcised, so that it might also be reputed to them unto justice,
and he might be the father of circumcision, not only for those who are of circumcision, but even for those who follow the footsteps of that faith which is in the uncircumcision of our father Abraham.
For the Promise to Abraham, and to his posterity, that he would inherit the world, was not through the law, but through the justice of faith.
For if those who are of the law are the heirs, then faith becomes empty and the Promise is abolished.
For the law works unto wrath. And where there is no law, there is no law-breaking.
Because of this, it is from faith according to grace that the Promise is ensured for all posterity, not only for those who are of the law, but also for those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all before God,
in whom he believed, who revives the dead and who calls those things that do not exist into existence. For it is written: “I have established you as the father of many nations.”
And he believed, with a hope beyond hope, so that he might become the father of many nations, according to what was said to him: “Thus shall your posterity shall be.”
And he was not weakened in faith, nor did he consider his own body to be dead (though he was then almost one hundred years old), nor the womb of Sarah to be dead.
And then, in the Promise of God, he did not hesitate out of distrust, but instead he was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God,
knowing most fully that whatever God has promised, he is also able to accomplish.
And for this reason, it was reputed to him unto justice.
Now this has been written, that it was reputed to him unto justice, not only for his sake,
but also for our sake. For the same shall be reputed to us, if we believe in him who raised up our Lord Jesus Christ from the dead,
who was handed over because of our offenses, and who rose again for our justification.
Therefore, having been justified by faith, let us be at peace with God, through our Lord Jesus Christ.
For through him we also have access by faith to this grace, in which we stand firm, and to glory, in the hope of the glory of the sons of God.
And not only that, but we also find glory in tribulation, knowing that tribulation exercises patience,
and patience leads to proving, yet truly proving leads to hope,
but hope is not unfounded, because the love of God is poured forth in our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us.
Yet why did Christ, while we were still infirm, at the proper time, suffer death for the impious?
Now someone might barely be willing to die for the sake of justice, for example, perhaps someone might dare to die for the sake of a good man.
But God demonstrates his love for us in that, while we were yet sinners, at the proper time,
Christ died for us. Therefore, having been justified now by his blood, all the more so shall we be saved from wrath through him.
For if we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, while we were still enemies, all the more so, having been reconciled, shall we be saved by his life.
And not only that, but we also glory in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.
Therefore, just as through one man sin entered into this world, and through sin, death; so also death was transferred to all men, to all who have sinned.
For even before the law, sin was in the world, but sin was not imputed while the law did not exist.
Yet death reigned from Adam until Moses, even in those who have not sinned, in the likeness of the transgression of Adam, who is a figure of him who was to come.
But the gift is not entirely like the offense. For though by the offense of one, many died, yet much more so, by the grace of one man, Jesus Christ, has the grace and gift of God abounded to many.
And the sin through one is not entirely like the gift. For certainly, the judgment of one was unto condemnation, but the grace toward many offenses is unto justification.
For though, by the one offense, death reigned through one, yet so much more so shall those who receive an abundance of grace, both of the gift and of justice, reign in life through the one Jesus Christ.
Therefore, just as through the offense of one, all men fell under condemnation, so also through the justice of one, all men fall under justification unto life.
For, just as through the disobedience of one man, many were established as sinners, so also through the obedience of one man, many shall be established as just.
Now the law entered in such a way that offenses would abound. But where offenses were abundant, grace was superabundant.
So then, just as sin has reigned unto death, so also may grace reign through justice unto eternal life, through Jesus Christ our Lord.
So what shall we say? Should we remain in sin, so that grace may abound?
Let it not be so! For how can we who have died to sin still live in sin?
Do you not know that those of us who have been baptized in Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death?
For through baptism we have been buried with him into death, so that, in the manner that Christ rose from the dead, by the glory of the Father, so may we also walk in the newness of life.
For if we have been planted together, in the likeness of his death, so shall we also be, in the likeness of his resurrection.
For we know this: that our former selves have been crucified together with him, so that the body which is of sin may be destroyed, and moreover, so that we may no longer serve sin.
For he who has died has been justified from sin.
Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live together with Christ.
For we know that Christ, in rising up from the dead, can no longer die: death no longer has dominion over him.
For in as much as he died for sin, he died once. But in as much as he lives, he lives for God.
And so, you should consider yourselves to be certainly dead to sin, and to be living for God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Therefore, let not sin reign in your mortal body, such that you would obey its desires.
Nor should you offer the parts of your body as instruments of iniquity for sin. Instead, offer yourselves to God, as if you were living after death, and offer the parts of your body as instruments of justice for God.
For sin should not have dominion over you. For you are not under the law, but under grace.
What is next? Should we sin because we are not under the law, but under grace? Let it not be so!
Do you not know to whom you are offering yourselves as servants under obedience? You are the servants of whomever you obey: whether of sin, unto death, or of obedience, unto justice.
But thanks be to God that, though you used to be the servants of sin, now you have been obedient from the heart to the very form of the doctrine into which you have been received.
And having been freed from sin, we have become servants of justice.
I am speaking in human terms because of the infirmity of your flesh. For just as you offered the parts of your body to serve impurity and iniquity, for the sake of iniquity, so also have you now yielded the parts of your body to serve justice, for the sake of sanctification.
For though you were once the servants of sin, you have become the children of justice.
But what fruit did you hold at that time, in those things about which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death.
Yet truly, having been freed now from sin, and having been made servants of God, you hold your fruit in sanctification, and truly its end is eternal life.
For the wages of sin is death. But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Or do you not know, brothers, (now I am speaking to those who know the law) that the law has dominion over a man only so long as he lives?
For example, a woman who is subject to a husband is obligated by the law while her husband lives. But when her husband has died, she is released from the law of her husband.
Therefore, while her husband lives, if she has been with another man, she should be called an adulteress. But when her husband has died, she is freed from the law of her husband, such that, if she has been with another man, she is not an adulteress.
And so, my brothers, you also have become dead to the law, through the body of Christ, so that you may be another one who has risen from the dead, in order that we may bear fruit for God.
For when we were in the flesh, the passions of sins, which were under the law, operated within our bodies, so as to bear fruit unto death.
But now we have been released from the law of death, by which we were being held, so that now we may serve with a renewed spirit, and not in the old way, by the letter.
What should we say next? Is the law sin? Let it not be so! But I do not know sin, except through the law. For example, I would not have known about coveting, unless the law said: “You shall not covet.”
But sin, receiving an opportunity through the commandment, wrought in me all manner of coveting. For apart from the law, sin was dead.
Now I lived for some time apart from the law. But when the commandment had arrived, sin was revived,
and I died. And the commandment, which was unto life, was itself found to be unto death for me.
For sin, receiving an opportunity through the commandment, seduced me, and, through the law, sin killed me.
And so, the law itself is indeed holy, and the commandment is holy and just and good.
Then was what is good made into death for me? Let it not be so! But rather sin, in order that it might be known as sin by what is good, wrought death in me; so that sin, through the commandment, might become sinful beyond measure.
For we know that the law is spiritual. But I am carnal, having been sold under sin.
For I do things that I do not understand. For I do not do the good that I want to do. But the evil that I hate is what I do.
So, when I do what I do not want to do, I am in agreement with the law, that the law is good.
But I am then acting not according to the law, but according to the sin which lives within me.
For I know that what is good does not live within me, that is, within my flesh. For the willingness to do good lies close to me, but the carrying out of that good, I cannot reach.
For I do not do the good that I want to do. But instead, I do the evil that I do not want to do.
Now if I do what I am not willing to do, it is no longer I who am doing it, but the sin which lives within me.
And so, I discover the law, by wanting to do good within myself, though evil lies close beside me.
For I am delighted with the law of God, according to the inner man.
But I perceive another law within my body, fighting against the law of my mind, and captivating me with the law of sin which is in my body.
Unhappy man that I am, who will free me from this body of death?
The grace of God, by Jesus Christ our Lord! Therefore, I serve the law of God with my own mind; but with the flesh, the law of sin.
Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, who are not walking according to the flesh.
For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has freed me from the law of sin and death.
For though this was impossible under the law, because it was weakened by the flesh, God sent his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and because of sin, in order to condemn sin in the flesh,
so that the justification of the law might be fulfilled in us. For we are not walking according to the flesh, but according to the spirit.
For those who are in agreement with the flesh are mindful of the things of the flesh. But those who are in agreement with the spirit are mindful of the things of the spirit.
For the prudence of the flesh is death. But the prudence of the spirit is life and peace.
And the wisdom of the flesh is inimical to God. For it is not subject to the law of God, nor can it be.
So those who are in the flesh are not able to please God.
And you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if it is true that the Spirit of God lives within you. But if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to him.
But if Christ is within you, then the body is indeed dead, concerning sin, but the spirit truly lives, because of justification.
But if the Spirit of him who raised up Jesus from the dead lives within you, then he who raised up Jesus Christ from the dead shall also enliven your mortal bodies, by means of his Spirit living within you.
Therefore, brothers, we are not debtors to the flesh, so as to live according to the flesh.
For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if, by the Spirit, you mortify the deeds of the flesh, you shall live.
For all those who are led by the Spirit of God are the sons of God.
And you have not received, again, a spirit of servitude in fear, but you have received the Spirit of the adoption of sons, in whom we cry out: “Abba, Father!”
For the Spirit himself renders testimony to our spirit that we are the sons of God.
But if we are sons, then we are also heirs: certainly heirs of God, but also co-heirs with Christ, yet in such a way that, if we suffer with him, we shall also be glorified with him.
For I consider that the sufferings of this time are not worthy to be compared with that future glory which shall be revealed in us.
For the anticipation of the creature anticipates the revelation of the sons of God.
For the creature was made subject to emptiness, not willingly, but for the sake of the One who made it subject, unto hope.
For the creature itself shall also be delivered from the servitude of corruption, into the liberty of the glory of the sons of God.
For we know that every creature groans inwardly, as if giving birth, even until now;
and not only these, but also ourselves, since we hold the first-fruits of the Spirit. For we also groan within ourselves, anticipating our adoption as the sons of God, and the redemption of our body.
For we have been saved by hope. But a hope which is seen is not hope. For when a man sees something, why would he hope?
But since we hope for what we do not see, we wait with patience.
And similarly, the Spirit also helps our weakness. For we do not know how to pray as we ought, but the Spirit himself asks on our behalf with ineffable sighing.
And he who examines hearts knows what the Spirit seeks, because he asks on behalf of the saints in accordance with God.
And we know that, for those who love God, all things work together unto good, for those who, in accordance with his purpose, are called to be saints.
For those whom he foreknew, he also predestinated, in conformity with the image of his Son, so that he might be the Firstborn among many brothers.
And those whom he predestinated, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified.
So, what should we say about these things? If God is for us, who is against us?
He who did not spare even his own Son, but handed him over for the sake of us all, how could he not also, with him, have given us all things?
Who will make an accusation against the elect of God? God is the One who justifies;
who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus who has died, and who has indeed also risen again, is at the right hand of God, and even now he intercedes for us.
Then who will separate us from the love of Christ? Tribulation? Or anguish? Or famine? Or nakedness? Or peril? Or persecution? Or the sword?
For it is as it has been written: “For your sake, we are being put to death all day long. We are being treated like sheep for the slaughter.”
But in all these things we overcome, because of him who has loved us.
For I am certain that neither death, nor life, nor Angels, nor Principalities, nor Powers, nor the present things, nor the future things, nor strength,
nor the heights, nor the depths, nor any other created thing, will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
I am speaking the truth in Christ; I am not lying. My conscience offers testimony to me in the Holy Spirit,
because the sadness within me is great, and there is a continuous sorrow in my heart.
For I was desiring that I myself might be anathemized from Christ, for the sake of my brothers, who are my kinsmen according to the flesh.
These are the Israelites, to whom belongs adoption as sons, and the glory and the testament, and the giving and following of the law, and the promises.
Theirs are the fathers, and from them, according to the flesh, is the Christ, who is over all things, blessed God, for all eternity. Amen.
But it is not that the Word of God has perished. For not all those who are Israelites are of Israel.
And not all sons are the offspring of Abraham: “For your offspring will be invoked in Isaac.”
In other words, those who are the sons of God are not those who are sons of the flesh, but those who are sons of the Promise; these are considered to be the offspring.
For the word of promise is this: “I will return at the proper time. And there shall be a son for Sarah.”
And she was not alone. For Rebecca also, having conceived by Isaac our father, from one act,
when the children had not yet been born, and had not yet done anything good or bad (such that the purpose of God might be based on their choice),
and not because of deeds, but because of a calling, it was said to her: “The elder shall serve the younger.”
So also it was written: “I have loved Jacob, but I have hated Esau.”
What should we say next? Is there unfairness with God? Let it not be so!
For to Moses he says: “I will pity whomever I pity. And I will offer mercy to whomever I will pity.”
Therefore, it is not based on those who choose, nor on those who excel, but on God who takes pity.
For Scripture says to the Pharaoh: “I have raised you up for this purpose, so that I may reveal my power by you, and so that my name may be announced to all the earth.”
Therefore, he takes pity on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills.
And so, you would say to me: “Then why does he still find fault? For who can resist his will?”
O man, who are you to question God? How can the thing that has been formed say to the One who formed him: “Why have you made me this way?”
And does not the potter have the authority over the clay to make, from the same material, indeed, one vessel unto honor, yet truly another unto disgrace?
What if God, wanting to reveal his wrath and to make his power known, endured, with much patience, vessels deserving wrath, fit to be destroyed,
so that he might reveal the wealth of his glory, within these vessels of mercy, which he has prepared unto glory?
And so it is with those of us whom he has also called, not only from among the Jews, but even from among the Gentiles,
just as he says in Hosea: “I will call those who were not my people, ‘my people,’ and she who was not beloved, ‘beloved,’ and she who had not obtained mercy, ‘one who has obtained mercy.’
And this shall be: in the place where it was said to them, ‘You are not my people,’ there they shall be called the sons of the living God.”
And Isaiah cried out on behalf of Israel: “When the number of the sons of Israel is like the sand of the sea, a remnant shall be saved.
For he shall complete his word, while abbreviating it out of equity. For the Lord shall accomplish a brief word upon the earth.”
And it is just as Isaiah predicted: “Unless the Lord of hosts had bequeathed offspring, we would have become like Sodom, and we would have been made similar to Gomorrah.”
What should we say next? That the Gentiles who did not follow justice have attained justice, even the justice that is of faith.
Yet truly, Israel, though following the law of justice, has not arrived at the law of justice.
Why is this? Because they did not seek it from faith, but as if it were from works. For they stumbled over a stumbling block,
just as it was written: “Behold, I am placing a stumbling block in Zion, and a rock of scandal. But whoever believes in him shall not be confounded.”
Brothers, certainly the will of my heart, and my prayer to God, is for them unto salvation.
For I offer testimony to them, that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge.
For, being ignorant of the justice of God, and seeking to establish their own justice, they have not subjected themselves to the justice of God.
For the end of the law, Christ, is unto justice for all who believe.
And Moses wrote, about the justice that is of the law, that the man who will have done justice shall live by justice.
But the justice that is of faith speaks in this way: Do not say in your heart: “Who shall ascend into heaven?” (that is, to bring Christ down);
“Or who shall descend into the abyss?” (that is, to call back Christ from the dead).
But what does Scripture say? “The word is near, in your mouth and in your heart.” This is the word of faith, which we are preaching.
For if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, and if you believe in your heart that God has raised him up from the dead, you shall be saved.
For with the heart, we believe unto justice; but with the mouth, confession is unto salvation.
For Scripture says: “All those who believe in him shall not be confounded.”
For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek. For the same Lord is over all, richly in all who call upon him.
For all those who have called upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.
Then in what way will those who have not believed in him call upon him? Or in what way will those who have not heard of him believe in him? And in what way will they hear of him without preaching?
And truly, in what way will they preach, unless they have been sent, just as it has been written: “How beautiful are the feet of those who evangelize peace, of those who evangelize what is good!”
But not all are obedient to the Gospel. For Isaiah says: “Lord, who has believed our report?”
Therefore, faith is from hearing, and hearing is through the Word of Christ.
But I say: Have they not heard? For certainly: “Their sound has gone forth throughout all the earth, and their words unto the limits of the whole world.”
But I say: Has Israel not known? First, Moses says: “I will lead you into a rivalry with those who are not a nation; in the midst of a foolish nation, I will send you into wrath.”
And Isaiah dares to say: “I was discovered by those who were not seeking me. I appeared openly to those who were not asking about me.”
Then to Israel he says: “All day long I have stretched out my hands to a people who do not believe and who contradict me.”
Therefore, I say: Has God driven away his people? Let it not be so! For I, too, am an Israelite of the offspring of Abraham, from the tribe of Benjamin.
God has not driven away his people, whom he foreknew. And do you not know what Scripture says in Elijah, how he calls upon God against Israel?
“Lord, they have slain your Prophets. They have overturned your altars. And I alone remain, and they are seeking my life.”
But what is the Divine response to him? “I have retained for myself seven thousand men, who have not bent their knees before Baal.”
Therefore, in the same way, again in this time, there is a remnant that has been saved in accord with the choice of grace.
And if it is by grace, then it is not now by works; otherwise grace is no longer free.
What is next? What Israel was seeking, he has not obtained. But the elect have obtained it. And truly, these others have been blinded,
just as it was written: “God has given them a spirit of reluctance: eyes that do not perceive, and ears that do not hear, even until this very day.”
And David says: “Let their table become like a snare, and a deception, and a scandal, and a retribution for them.
Let their eyes be obscured, so that they may not see, and so that they may bow down their backs always.”
Therefore, I say: Have they stumbled in such a way that they should fall? Let it not be so! Instead, by their offense, salvation is with the Gentiles, so that they may be a rival to them.
Now if their offense is the riches of the world, and if their diminution is the riches of the Gentiles, how much more is their fullness?
For I say to you Gentiles: Certainly, as long as I am an Apostle to the Gentiles, I will honor my ministry,
in such a way that I might provoke to rivalry those who are my own flesh, and so that I may save some of them.
For if their loss is for the reconciliation of the world, what could their return be for, except life out of death?
For if the first-fruit has been sanctified, so also has the whole. And if the root is holy, so also are the branches.
And if some of the branches are broken, and if you, being a wild olive branch, are grafted on to them, and you become a partaker of the root and of the fatness of the olive tree,
do not glorify yourself above the branches. For though you glory, you do not support the root, but the root supports you.
Therefore, you would say: The branches were broken off, so that I might be grafted on.
Well enough. They were broken off because of unbelief. But you stand on faith. So do not choose to savor what is exalted, but instead be afraid.
For if God has not spared the natural branches, perhaps also he might not spare you.
So then, notice the goodness and the severity of God. Certainly, toward those who have fallen, there is severity; but toward you, there is the goodness of God, if you remain in goodness. Otherwise, you also will be cut off.
Moreover, if they do not remain in unbelief, they will be grafted on. For God is able to graft them on again.
So if you have been cut off from the wild olive tree, which is natural to you, and, contrary to nature, you are grafted on to the good olive tree, how much more shall those who are the natural branches be grafted on to their own olive tree?
For I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, of this mystery (lest you seem wise only to yourselves) that a certain blindness has occurred in Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles has arrived.
And in this way, all of Israel may be saved, just as it was written: “From Zion shall arrive he who delivers, and he shall turn impiety away from Jacob.
And this will be my covenant for them, when I will take away their sins.”
Certainly, according to the Gospel, they are enemies for your sake. But according to the election, they are most beloved for the sake of the fathers.
For the gifts and the call of God are without regret.
And just as you also, in times past, did not believe in God, but now you have obtained mercy because of their unbelief,
so also have these now not believed, for your mercy, so that they might obtain mercy also.
For God has enclosed everyone in unbelief, so that he may have mercy on everyone.
Oh, the depths of the richness of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How incomprehensible are his judgments, and how unsearchable are his ways!
For who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor?
Or who first gave to him, so that repayment would be owed?
For from him, and through him, and in him are all things. To him is glory, for all eternity. Amen.
And so, I beg you, brothers, by the mercy of God, that you offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God, with the subservience of your mind.
And do not choose to be conformed to this age, but instead choose to be reformed in the newness of your mind, so that you may demonstrate what is the will of God: what is good, and what is well-pleasing, and what is perfect.
For I say, through the grace that has been given to me, to all who are among you: Taste no more than it is necessary to taste, but taste unto sobriety and just as God has distributed a share of the faith to each one.
For just as, within one body, we have many parts, though all the parts do not have the same role,
so also we, being many, are one body in Christ, and each one is a part, the one of the other.
And we each have different gifts, according to the grace that has been given to us: whether prophecy, in agreement with the reasonableness of faith;
or ministry, in ministering; or he who teaches, in doctrine;
he who exhorts, in exhortation; he who gives, in simplicity; he who governs, in solicitude; he who shows mercy, in cheerfulness.
Let love be without falseness: hating evil, clinging to what is good,
loving one another with fraternal charity, surpassing one another in honor:
in solicitude, not lazy; in spirit, fervent; serving the Lord;
in hope, rejoicing; in tribulation, enduring; in prayer, ever-willing;
in the difficulties of the saints, sharing; in hospitality, attentive.
Bless those who are persecuting you: bless, and do not curse.
Rejoice with those who are rejoicing. Weep with those who are weeping.
Be of the same mind toward one another: not savoring what is exalted, but consenting in humility. Do not choose to seem wise to yourself.
Render to no one harm for harm. Provide good things, not only in the sight of God, but also in the sight of all men.
If it is possible, in so far as you are able, be at peace with all men.
Do not defend yourselves, dearest ones. Instead, step aside from wrath. For it is written: “Vengeance is mine. I shall give retribution, says the Lord.”
So if an enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him a drink. For in doing so, you will heap burning coals upon his head.
Do not allow evil to prevail, instead prevail over evil by means of goodness.
Let every soul be subject to higher authorities. For there is no authority except from God and those who have been ordained by God.
And so, whoever resists authority, resists what has been ordained by God. And those who resist are acquiring damnation for themselves.
For leaders are not a source of fear to those who work good, but to those who work evil. And would you prefer not to be afraid of authority? Then do what is good, and you shall have praise from them.
For he is a minister of God for you unto good. But if you do what is evil, be afraid. For it is not without reason that he carries a sword. For he is a minister of God; an avenger to execute wrath upon whomever does evil.
For this reason, it is necessary to be subject, not solely because of wrath, but also because of conscience.
Therefore, you must also offer tribute. For they are the ministers of God, serving him in this.
Therefore, render to all whatever is owed. Taxes, to whom taxes is due; revenue, to whom revenue is due; fear, to whom fear is due; honor, to whom honor is due.
You should owe nothing to anyone, except so as to love one another. For whoever loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law.
For example: You shall not commit adultery. You shall not kill. You shall not steal. You shall not speak false testimony. You shall not covet. And if there is any other commandment, it is summed up in this word: You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
The love of neighbor does no harm. Therefore, love is the plenitude of the law.
And we know the present time, that now is the hour for us to rise up from sleep. For already our salvation is closer than when we first believed.
The night has passed, and the day draws near. Therefore, let us cast aside the works of darkness, and be clothed with the armor of light.
Let us walk honestly, as in the daylight, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in promiscuity and sexual immorality, not in contention and envy.
Instead, be clothed with the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh in its desires.
But accept those who are weak in faith, without disputing about ideas.
For one person believes that he may eat all things, but if another is weak, let him eat plants.
He who eats should not despise him who does not eat. And he who does not eat should not judge him who eats. For God has accepted him.
Who are you to judge the servant of another? He stands or falls by his own Lord. But he shall stand. For God is able to make him stand.
For one person discerns one age from the next. But another discerns unto every age. Let each one increase according to his own mind.
He who understands the age, understands for the Lord. And he who eats, eats for the Lord; for he gives thanks to God. And he who does not eat, does not eat for the Lord, and he gives thanks to God.
For none of us lives for himself, and none of us dies for himself.
For if we live, we live for the Lord, and if we die, we die for the Lord. Therefore, whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord.
For Christ died and rose again for this purpose: that he might be the ruler of both the dead and the living.
So then, why do you judge your brother? Or why do you despise your brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ.
For it is written: “As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bend to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.”
And so, each one of us shall offer an explanation of himself to God.
Therefore, we should no longer judge one another. Instead, judge this to a greater extent: that you should not place an obstacle before your brother, nor lead him astray.
I know, with confidence in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is unclean in and of itself. But to him who considers anything to be unclean, it is unclean to him.
For if your brother is grieved because of your food, you are not now walking according to love. Do not allow your food to destroy him for whom Christ died.
Therefore, what is good for us should not be a cause of blasphemy.
For the kingdom of God is not food and drink, but rather justice and peace and joy, in the Holy Spirit.
For he who serves Christ in this, pleases God and is proven before men.
And so, let us pursue the things that are of peace, and let us keep to the things that are for the edification of one another.
Do not be willing to destroy the work of God because of food. Certainly, all things are clean. But there is harm for a man who offends by eating.
It is good to refrain from eating meat and from drinking wine, and from anything by which your brother is offended, or led astray, or weakened.
Do you have faith? It belongs to you, so hold it before God. Blessed is he who does not judge himself in that by which he is tested.
But he who discerns, if he eats, is condemned, because it is not of faith. For all that is not of faith is sin.
But we who are stronger must bear with the feebleness of the weak, and not so as to please ourselves.
Each one of you should please his neighbor unto good, for edification.
For even Christ did not please himself, but as it was written: “The reproaches of those who reproached you fell upon me.”
For whatever was written, was written to teach us, so that, through patience and the consolation of the Scriptures, we might have hope.
So may the God of patience and solace grant you to be of one mind toward one another, in accord with Jesus Christ,
so that, together with one mouth, you may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
For this reason, accept one another, just as Christ also has accepted you, in the honor of God.
For I declare that Christ Jesus was the minister of circumcision because of the truth of God, so as to confirm the promises to the fathers,
and that the Gentiles are to honor God because of his mercy, just as it was written: “Because of this, I will confess you among the Gentiles, O Lord, and I will sing to your name.”
And again, he says: “Rejoice, O Gentiles, along with his people.”
And again: “All Gentiles, praise the Lord; and all peoples, magnify him.”
And again, Isaiah says: “There shall be a root of Jesse, and he shall rise up to rule the Gentiles, and in him the Gentiles shall hope.”
So may the God of hope fill you with every joy and with peace in believing, so that you may abound in hope and in the virtue of the Holy Spirit.
But I am also certain about you, my brothers, that you also have been filled with love, completed with all knowledge, so that you are able to admonish one another.
But I have written to you, brothers, more boldly than to the others, as if calling you to mind again, because of the grace which has been given to me from God,
so that I may be a minister of Christ Jesus among the Gentiles, sanctifying the Gospel of God, in order that the oblation of the Gentiles may be made acceptable and may be sanctified in the Holy Spirit.
Therefore, I have glory in Christ Jesus before God.
So I dare not speak of any of those things which Christ does not effect through me, unto the obedience of the Gentiles, in word and deed,
with the power of signs and wonders, by power of the Holy Spirit. For in this way, from Jerusalem, throughout its surroundings, as far as Illyricum, I have replenished the Gospel of Christ.
And so I have preached this Gospel, not where Christ was known by name, lest I build upon the foundation of another,
but just as it was written: “Those to whom he was not announced shall perceive, and those who have not heard shall understand.”
Because of this also, I was greatly hindered in coming to you, and I have been prevented until the present time.
Yet truly now, having no other destination in these regions, and having already had a great desire to come to you over the past many years,
when I begin to set out on my journey to Spain, I hope that, as I pass by, I may see you, and I may be guided from there by you, after first having borne some fruit among you.
But next I will set out for Jerusalem, to minister to the saints.
For those of Macedonia and Achaia have decided to make a collection for those of the poor among the saints who are at Jerusalem.
And this has pleased them, because they are in their debt. For, since the Gentiles have become partakers of their spiritual things, they also ought to minister to them in worldly things.
Therefore, when I have completed this task, and have consigned to them this fruit, I shall set out, by way of you, to Spain.
And I know that when I come to you I shall arrive with an abundance of the blessings of the Gospel of Christ.
Therefore, I beg you, brothers, through our Lord Jesus Christ and though the love of the Holy Spirit, that you assist me with your prayers to God on my behalf,
so that I may be freed from the unfaithful who are in Judea, and so that the oblation of my service may be acceptable to the saints in Jerusalem.
So may I come to you with joy, through the will of God, and so may I be refreshed with you.
And may the God of peace be with you all. Amen.
Now I commend to you our sister Phoebe, who is in the ministry of the church, which is at Cenchreae,
so that you may receive her in the Lord with the worthiness of the saints, and so that you may be of assistance to her in whatever task she will have need of you. For she herself has also assisted many, and myself also.
Greet Prisca and Aquila, my helpers in Christ Jesus,
who have risked their own necks on behalf of my life, for whom I give thanks, not I alone, but also all the churches of the Gentiles;
and greet the church at their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is among the first-fruits of Asia in Christ.
Greet Mary, who has labored much among you.
Greet Andronicus and Junias, my kinsmen and fellow captives, who are noble among the Apostles, and who were in Christ prior to me.
Greet Ampliatus, most beloved to me in the Lord.
Greet Urbanus, our helper in Christ Jesus, and Stachys, my beloved.
Greet Apelles, who has been tested in Christ.
Greet those who are from the household of Aristobulus. Greet Herodian, my kinsman. Greet those who are of the household of Narcissus, who are in the Lord.
Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet Persis, most beloved, who has labored much in the Lord.
Greet Rufus, elect in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brothers who are with them.
Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them.
Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you.
But I beg you, brothers, to take note of those who cause dissensions and offenses contrary to the doctrine that you have learned, and to turn away from them.
For ones such as these do not serve Christ our Lord, but their inner selves, and, through pleasing words and skillful speaking, they seduce the hearts of the innocent.
But your obedience has been made known in every place. And so, I rejoice in you. But I want you to be wise in what is good, and simple in what is evil.
And may the God of peace quickly crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Timothy, my fellow laborer, greets you, and Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my kinsmen.
I, Tertius, who wrote this epistle, greet you in the Lord.
Gaius, my host, and the entire church, greets you. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, greets you, and Quartus, a brother.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
But to him who is able to confirm you according to my Gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, in accord with the revelation of the mystery which has been hidden from time immemorial,
(which now has been made clear through the Scriptures of the Prophets, in accord with the precept of the eternal God, unto the obedience of faith) which has been made known among all the Gentiles:
to God, who alone is wise, through Jesus Christ, to him be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.
1 Corinthians 1:1	Paul, called as an Apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God; and Sosthenes, a brother:
1 Corinthians 1:2	to the Church of God which is at Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints with all who are invoking the name of our Lord Jesus Christ in every place of theirs and of ours.
1 Corinthians 1:3	Grace and peace to you from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 1:4	I give thanks to my God continuously for you because of the grace of God that has been given to you in Christ Jesus.
1 Corinthians 1:5	By that grace, in all things, you have become wealthy in him, in every word and in all knowledge.
1 Corinthians 1:6	And so, the testimony of Christ has been strengthened in you.
1 Corinthians 1:7	In this way, nothing is lacking to you in any grace, as you await the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 1:8	And he, too, will strengthen you, even until the end, without guilt, until the day of the advent of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 1:9	God is faithful. Through him, you have been called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
1 Corinthians 1:10	And so, I beg you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that every one of you speak in the same way, and that there be no schisms among you. So may you become perfect, with the same mind and with the same judgment.
1 Corinthians 1:11	For it has been indicated to me, about you, my brothers, by those who are with Chloes, that there are contentions among you.
1 Corinthians 1:12	Now I say this because each of you is saying: “Certainly, I am of Paul;” “But I am of Apollo;” “Truly, I am of Cephas;” as well as: “I am of Christ.”
1 Corinthians 1:13	Has Christ been divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul?
1 Corinthians 1:14	I give thanks to God that I have baptized none of you, except Crispus and Gaius,
1 Corinthians 1:15	lest anyone say that you have been baptized in my name.
1 Corinthians 1:16	And I also baptized the household of Stephanus. Other than these, I do not recall if I baptized any others.
1 Corinthians 1:17	For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to evangelize: not through the wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ become empty.
1 Corinthians 1:18	For the Word of the Cross is certainly foolishness to those who are perishing. But to those who have been saved, that is, to us, it is the power of God.
1 Corinthians 1:19	For it has been written: “I will perish the wisdom of the wise, and I will reject the discernment of the prudent.”
1 Corinthians 1:20	Where are the wise? Where are the scribes? Where are the truth-seekers of this age? Has not God made the wisdom of this world into foolishness?
1 Corinthians 1:21	For the world did not know God through wisdom, and so, in the wisdom of God, it pleased God to accomplish the salvation of believers, through the foolishness of our preaching.
1 Corinthians 1:22	For the Jews ask for signs, and the Greeks seek wisdom.
1 Corinthians 1:23	But we are preaching Christ crucified. Certainly, to the Jews, this is a scandal, and to the Gentiles, this is foolishness.
1 Corinthians 1:24	But to those who have been called, Jews as well as Greeks, the Christ is the virtue of God and the wisdom of God.
1 Corinthians 1:25	For what is foolishness to God is considered wise by men, and that which is weakness to God is considered strong by men.
1 Corinthians 1:26	So take care of your vocation, brothers. For not many are wise according to the flesh, not many are powerful, not many are noble.
1 Corinthians 1:27	But God has chosen the foolish of the world, so that he may confound the wise. And God has chosen the weak of the world, so that he may confound the strong.
1 Corinthians 1:28	And God has chosen the ignoble and contemptible of the world, those who are nothing, so that he may reduce to nothing those who are something.
1 Corinthians 1:29	So then, nothing that is of the flesh should glory in his sight.
1 Corinthians 1:30	But you are of him in Christ Jesus, who was made by God to be our wisdom and justice and sanctification and redemption.
1 Corinthians 1:31	And so, in the same way, it was written: “Whoever glories, should glory in the Lord.”
1 Corinthians 2:1	And so, brothers, when I came to you, announcing to you the testimony of Christ, I did not bring exalted words or lofty wisdom.
1 Corinthians 2:2	For I did not judge myself to know anything among you, except Jesus Christ, and him crucified.
1 Corinthians 2:3	And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and with much trembling.
1 Corinthians 2:4	And my words and preaching were not the persuasive words of human wisdom, but were a manifestation of the Spirit and of virtue,
1 Corinthians 2:5	so that your faith would not be based on the wisdom of men, but on the virtue of God.
1 Corinthians 2:6	Now, we do speak wisdom among the perfect, yet truly, this is not the wisdom of this age, nor that of the leaders of this age, which shall be reduced to nothing.
1 Corinthians 2:7	Instead, we speak of the wisdom of God in a mystery which has been hidden, which God predestined before this age for our glory,
1 Corinthians 2:8	something that none of the leaders of this world have known. For if they had known it, they would never have crucified the Lord of glory.
1 Corinthians 2:9	But this is just as it has been written: “The eye has not seen, and the ear has not heard, nor has it entered into the heart of man, what things God has prepared for those who love him.”
1 Corinthians 2:10	But God has revealed these things to us through his Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God.
1 Corinthians 2:11	And who can know the things that are of a man, except the spirit which is within that man? So also, no one knows the things which are of God, except the Spirit of God.
1 Corinthians 2:12	But we have not received the spirit of this world, but the Spirit who is of God, so that we may understand the things that have been given to us by God.
1 Corinthians 2:13	And we are also speaking of these things, not in the learned words of human wisdom, but in the doctrine of the Spirit, bringing spiritual things together with spiritual things.
1 Corinthians 2:14	But the animal nature of man does not perceive these things that are of the Spirit of God. For it is foolishness to him, and he is not able to understand it, because it must be examined spiritually.
1 Corinthians 2:15	But the spiritual nature of man judges all things, and he himself may be judged by no man.
1 Corinthians 2:16	For who has known the mind of the Lord, so that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.
1 Corinthians 3:1	And so, brothers, I was not able to speak to you as if to those who are spiritual, but rather as if to those who are carnal. For you are like infants in Christ.
1 Corinthians 3:2	I gave you milk to drink, not solid food. For you were not yet able. And indeed, even now, you are not able; for you are still carnal.
1 Corinthians 3:3	And since there is still envy and contention among you, are you not carnal, and are you not walking according to man?
1 Corinthians 3:4	For if one says, “Certainly, I am of Paul,” while another says, “I am of Apollo,” are you not men? But what is Apollo, and what is Paul?
1 Corinthians 3:5	We are only the ministers of him in whom you have believed, just as the Lord has granted to each of you.
1 Corinthians 3:6	I planted, Apollo watered, but God provided the growth.
1 Corinthians 3:7	And so, neither he who plants, nor he who waters, is anything, but only God, who provides the growth.
1 Corinthians 3:8	Now he who plants, and he who waters, are one. But each shall receive his proper reward, according to his labors.
1 Corinthians 3:9	For we are God’s assistants. You are God’s cultivation; you are God’s construction.
1 Corinthians 3:10	According to the grace of God, which has been given to me, I have laid the foundation like a wise architect. But another builds upon it. So then, let each one be careful how he builds upon it.
1 Corinthians 3:11	For no one is able to lay any other foundation, in place of that which has been laid, which is Christ Jesus.
1 Corinthians 3:12	But if anyone builds upon this foundation, whether gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, or stubble,
1 Corinthians 3:13	each one’s work shall be made manifest. For the day of the Lord shall declare it, because it will be revealed by fire. And this fire will test each one’s work, as to what kind it is.
1 Corinthians 3:14	If anyone’s work, which he has built upon it, remains, then he will receive a reward.
1 Corinthians 3:15	If anyone’s work is burned up, he will suffer its loss, but he himself will still be saved, but only as through fire.
1 Corinthians 3:16	Do you not know that you are the Temple of God, and that the Spirit of God lives within you?
1 Corinthians 3:17	But if anyone violates the Temple of God, God will destroy him. For the Temple of God is holy, and you are that Temple.
1 Corinthians 3:18	Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you seems to be wise in this age, let him become foolish, so that he may be truly wise.
1 Corinthians 3:19	For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. And so it has been written: “I will catch the wise in their own astuteness.”
1 Corinthians 3:20	And again: “The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain.”
1 Corinthians 3:21	And so, let no one glory in men.
1 Corinthians 3:22	For all is yours: whether Paul, or Apollo, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or the present, or the future. Yes, all is yours.
1 Corinthians 3:23	But you are Christ’s, and Christ is God’s.
1 Corinthians 4:1	Accordingly, let man consider us to be ministers of Christ and attendants of the mysteries of God.
1 Corinthians 4:2	Here and now, it is required of attendants that each one be found to be faithful.
1 Corinthians 4:3	But as for me, it is such a small thing to be judged by you, or by the age of mankind. And neither do I judge myself.
1 Corinthians 4:4	For I have nothing on my conscience. But I am not justified by this. For the Lord is the One who judges me.
1 Corinthians 4:5	And so, do not choose to judge before the time, until the Lord returns. He will illuminate the hidden things of the darkness, and he will make manifest the decisions of hearts. And then each one shall have praise from God.
1 Corinthians 4:6	And so, brothers, I have presented these things in myself and in Apollo, for your sakes, so that you may learn, through us, that no one should be inflated against one person and for another, not beyond what has been written.
1 Corinthians 4:7	For what distinguishes you from another? And what do you have that you have not received? But if you have received it, why do you glory, as if you had not received it?
1 Corinthians 4:8	So, now you have been filled, and now you have been made wealthy, as if to reign without us? But I wish that you would reign, so that we, too, might reign with you!
1 Corinthians 4:9	For I think that God has presented us as the last Apostles, as those destined for death. For we have been made into a spectacle for the world, and for Angels, and for men.
1 Corinthians 4:10	So we are fools because of Christ, but you are discerning in Christ? We are weak, but you are strong? You are noble, but we are ignoble?
1 Corinthians 4:11	Even to this very hour, we hunger and thirst, and we are naked and repeatedly beaten, and we are unsteady.
1 Corinthians 4:12	And we labor, working with our own hands. We are slandered, and so we bless. We suffer and endure persecution.
1 Corinthians 4:13	We are cursed, and so we pray. We have become like the refuse of this world, like the reside of everything, even until now.
1 Corinthians 4:14	I am not writing these things in order to confound you, but in order to admonish you, as my dearest sons.
1 Corinthians 4:15	For you might have ten thousand instructors in Christ, but not so many fathers. For in Christ Jesus, through the Gospel, I have begotten you.
1 Corinthians 4:16	Therefore, I beg you, be imitators of me, just as I am of Christ.
1 Corinthians 4:17	For this reason, I have sent you Timothy, who is my dearest son, and who is faithful in the Lord. He will remind you of my ways, which are in Christ Jesus, just as I teach everywhere, in every church.
1 Corinthians 4:18	Certain persons have become inflated in thinking that I would not return to you.
1 Corinthians 4:19	But I will return to you soon, if the Lord is willing. And I will consider, not the words of those who are inflated, but the virtue.
1 Corinthians 4:20	For the kingdom of God is not in words, but in virtue.
1 Corinthians 4:21	What would you prefer? Should I return to you with a rod, or with charity and a spirit of meekness?
1 Corinthians 5:1	Above all else, it is being said that there is fornication among you, even fornication of a such kind that is not among the Gentiles, so that someone would have the wife of his father.
1 Corinthians 5:2	And yet you are inflated, and you have not instead been grieved, so that he who has done this thing would be taken away from your midst.
1 Corinthians 5:3	Certainly, though absent in body, I am present in spirit. Thus, I have already judged, as if I were present, him who has done this.
1 Corinthians 5:4	In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, you have been gathered together with my spirit, in the power of our Lord Jesus,
1 Corinthians 5:5	to hand over such a one as this to Satan, for the destruction of the flesh, so that the spirit may be saved in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 5:6	It is not good for you to glory. Do you not know that a little leaven corrupts the entire mass?
1 Corinthians 5:7	Purge the old leaven, so that you may become the new bread, for you are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover, has now been immolated.
1 Corinthians 5:8	And so, let us feast, not with the old leaven, not with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
1 Corinthians 5:9	As I have written to you in an epistle: “Do not associate with fornicators,”
1 Corinthians 5:10	certainly not with the fornicators of this world, nor with the greedy, nor with robbers, nor with the servants of idolatry. Otherwise, you ought to depart from this world.
1 Corinthians 5:11	But now I have written to you: do not associate with anyone who is called a brother and yet is a fornicator, or greedy, or a servant of idolatry, or a slanderer, or inebriated, or a robber. With such a one as this, do not even take food.
1 Corinthians 5:12	For what have I to do with judging those who are outside? But do not even you yourselves judge those who are inside?
1 Corinthians 5:13	For those who are outside, God will judge. But send this evil person away from yourselves.
1 Corinthians 6:1	How is it that anyone of you, having a dispute against another, would dare to be judged before the iniquitous, and not before the saints?
1 Corinthians 6:2	Or do you not know that the saints from this age shall judge it? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you unworthy, then, to judge even the smallest matters?
1 Corinthians 6:3	Do you not know that we shall judge angels? How much more the things of this age?
1 Corinthians 6:4	Therefore, if you have matters to judge concerning this age, why not appoint those who are most contemptible in the Church to judge these things!
1 Corinthians 6:5	But I am speaking so as to shame you. Is there no one among you wise enough, so that he might be able to judge between his brothers?
1 Corinthians 6:6	Instead, brother contends against brother in court, and this before the unfaithful!
1 Corinthians 6:7	Now there is certainly an offense among you, beyond everything else, when you have court cases against one another. Should you not accept injury instead? Should you not endure being cheated instead?
1 Corinthians 6:8	But you are doing the injuring and the cheating, and this toward brothers!
1 Corinthians 6:9	Do you not know that the iniquitous will not possess the kingdom of God? Do not choose to wander astray. For neither fornicators, nor servants of idolatry, nor adulterers,
1 Corinthians 6:10	nor the effeminate, nor males who sleep with males, nor thieves, nor the avaricious, nor the inebriated, nor slanderers, nor the rapacious shall possess the kingdom of God.
1 Corinthians 6:11	And some of you were like this. But you have been absolved, but you have been sanctified, but you have been justified: all in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God.
1 Corinthians 6:12	All is lawful to me, but not all is expedient. All is lawful to me, but I will not be driven back by the authority of anyone.
1 Corinthians 6:13	Food is for the stomach, and the stomach is for food. But God shall destroy both the stomach and food. And the body is not for fornication, but rather for the Lord; and the Lord is for the body.
1 Corinthians 6:14	Truly, God has raised up the Lord, and he will raise us up by his power.
1 Corinthians 6:15	Do you not know that your bodies are a part of Christ? So then, should I take a part of Christ and make it a part of a harlot? Let it not be so!
1 Corinthians 6:16	And do you not know that whoever is joined to a harlot becomes one body? “For the two,” he said, “shall be as one flesh.”
1 Corinthians 6:17	But whoever is joined to the Lord is one spirit.
1 Corinthians 6:18	Flee from fornication. Every sin whatsoever that a man commits is outside of the body, but whoever fornicates, sins against his own body.
1 Corinthians 6:19	Or do you not know that your bodies are the Temple of the Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom you have from God, and that you are not your own?
1 Corinthians 6:20	For you have been bought at a great price. Glorify and carry God in your body.
1 Corinthians 7:1	Now concerning the things about which you wrote to me: It is good for a man not to touch a woman.
1 Corinthians 7:2	But, because of fornication, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband.
1 Corinthians 7:3	A husband should fulfill his obligation to his wife, and a wife should also act similarly toward her husband.
1 Corinthians 7:4	It is not the wife, but the husband, who has power over her body. But, similarly also, it is not the husband, but the wife, who has power over his body.
1 Corinthians 7:5	So, do not fail in your obligations to one another, except perhaps by consent, for a limited time, so that you may empty yourselves for prayer. And then, return together again, lest Satan tempt you by means of your abstinence.
1 Corinthians 7:6	But I am saying this, neither as an indulgence, nor as a commandment.
1 Corinthians 7:7	For I would prefer it if you were all like myself. But each person has his proper gift from God: one in this way, yet another in that way.
1 Corinthians 7:8	But I say to the unmarried and to widows: It is good for them, if they would remain as they are, just as I also am.
1 Corinthians 7:9	But if they cannot restrain themselves, they should marry. For it is better to marry, than to be burned.
1 Corinthians 7:10	But to those who have been joined in matrimony, it is not I who commands you, but the Lord: a wife is not to separate from her husband.
1 Corinthians 7:11	But if she has separated from him, she must remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband. And a husband should not divorce his wife.
1 Corinthians 7:12	Concerning the rest, I am speaking, not the Lord. If any brother has an unbelieving wife, and she consents to live with him, he should not divorce her.
1 Corinthians 7:13	And if any woman has an unbelieving husband, and he consents to live with her, she should not divorce her husband.
1 Corinthians 7:14	For the unbelieving husband has been sanctified through the believing wife, and the unbelieving wife has been sanctified through the believing husband. Otherwise, your children would be unclean, whereas instead they are holy.
1 Corinthians 7:15	But if the unbeliever departs, let him depart. For a brother or sister cannot be made subject to servitude in this way. For God has called us to peace.
1 Corinthians 7:16	And how do you know, wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your wife?
1 Corinthians 7:17	However, let each one walk just as the Lord has distributed to him, each one just as God has called him. And thus do I teach in all the churches.
1 Corinthians 7:18	Has any circumcised man been called? Let him not cover his circumcision. Has any uncircumcised man been called? Let him not be circumcised.
1 Corinthians 7:19	Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing; there is only the observance of the commandments of God.
1 Corinthians 7:20	Let each and every one remain in the same calling to which he was called.
1 Corinthians 7:21	Are you a servant who has been called? Do not be concerned about it. But if you ever have the ability to be free, make use of it.
1 Corinthians 7:22	For any servant who has been called in the Lord is free in the Lord. Similarly, any free person who has been called is a servant in Christ.
1 Corinthians 7:23	You have been bought with a price. Do not be willing to become the servants of men.
1 Corinthians 7:24	Brothers, let each one, in whatever state he was called, remain in that state with God.
1 Corinthians 7:25	Now, concerning virgins, I have no commandment from the Lord. But I give counsel, as one who has obtained the mercy of the Lord, so as to be faithful.
1 Corinthians 7:26	Therefore, I consider this to be good, because of the present necessity: that it is good for a man to be such as I am.
1 Corinthians 7:27	Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be freed. Are you free of a wife? Do not seek a wife.
1 Corinthians 7:28	But if you take a wife, you have not sinned. And if a virgin has married, she has not sinned. Even so, such as these will have the tribulation of the flesh. But I would spare you from this.
1 Corinthians 7:29	And so, this is what I say, brothers: The time is short. What remains of it is such that: those who have wives should be as if they had none;
1 Corinthians 7:30	and those who weep, as though they were not weeping; and those who rejoice, as if they were not rejoicing; and those who buy, as if they possessed nothing;
1 Corinthians 7:31	and those who use the things of this world, as if they were not using them. For the figure of this world is passing away.
1 Corinthians 7:32	But I would prefer you to be without worry. Whoever is without a wife is worried about the things of the Lord, as to how he may please God.
1 Corinthians 7:33	But whoever is with a wife is worried about the things of the world, as to how he may please his wife. And so, he is divided.
1 Corinthians 7:34	And the unmarried woman and the virgin think about the things that are of the Lord, so that she may be holy in body and in spirit. But she who is married thinks about the things that are of the world, as to how she may please her husband.
1 Corinthians 7:35	Furthermore, I am saying this for your own benefit, not in order to cast a snare over you, but toward whatever is honest and whatever may provide you with the ability to be without hindrance, so as to worship the Lord.
1 Corinthians 7:36	But if any man considers himself to seem dishonorable, concerning a virgin who is of adult age, and so it ought to be, he may do as he wills. If he marries her, he does not sin.
1 Corinthians 7:37	But if he has decided firmly in his heart, and he does not have any obligation, but only the power of his free will, and if he has judged this in his heart, to let her remain a virgin, he does well.
1 Corinthians 7:38	And so, he who joins with his virgin in matrimony does well, and he who does not join with her does better.
1 Corinthians 7:39	A woman is bound under the law for as long as her husband lives. But if her husband has died, she is free. She may marry whomever she wishes, but only in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 7:40	But she will be more blessed, if she remains in this state, in accord with my counsel. And I think that I, too, have the Spirit of God.
1 Corinthians 8:1	Now concerning those things that are sacrificed to idols: we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but charity builds up.
1 Corinthians 8:2	But if anyone considers himself to know anything, he does not yet know in the way that he ought to know.
1 Corinthians 8:3	For if anyone loves God, he is known by him.
1 Corinthians 8:4	But as to the foods that are immolated to idols, we know that an idol in the world is nothing, and that no one is God, except One.
1 Corinthians 8:5	For although there are things that are called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, (if one even considers there to be many gods and many lords)
1 Corinthians 8:6	yet we know that there is only one God, the Father, from whom all things are, and in whom we are, and one Lord Jesus Christ, through whom all things are, and by whom we are.
1 Corinthians 8:7	But knowledge is not in everyone. For some persons, even now, with consent to an idol, eat what has been sacrificed to an idol. And their conscience, being infirm, becomes polluted.
1 Corinthians 8:8	Yet food does not commend us to God. For if we eat, we will not have more, and if we do not eat, we will not have less.
1 Corinthians 8:9	But be careful not to let your liberty become a cause of sin to those who are weak.
1 Corinthians 8:10	For if anyone sees someone with knowledge sitting down to eat in idolatry, will not his own conscience, being infirm, be emboldened to eat what has been sacrificed to idols?
1 Corinthians 8:11	And should an infirm brother perish by your knowledge, even though Christ died for him?
1 Corinthians 8:12	So when you sin in this way against the brothers, and you harm their weakened conscience, then you sin against Christ.
1 Corinthians 8:13	Because of this, if food leads my brother to sin, I will never eat meat, lest I lead my brother to sin.
1 Corinthians 9:1	Am I not free? Am I not an Apostle? Have I not seen Christ Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?
1 Corinthians 9:2	And if I am not an Apostle to others, yet still I am to you. For you are the seal of my Apostleship in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 9:3	My defense with those who question me is this:
1 Corinthians 9:4	Do we not have the authority to eat and to drink?
1 Corinthians 9:5	Do we not have the authority to travel around with a woman who is a sister, just as do the other Apostles, and the brothers of the Lord, and Cephas?
1 Corinthians 9:6	Or is it only myself and Barnabas who do not have the authority to act in this way?
1 Corinthians 9:7	Who has ever served as a soldier and paid his own stipend? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat from its produce? Who pastures a flock and does not drink from the milk of the flock?
1 Corinthians 9:8	Am I saying these things according to man? Or does the law not also say these things?
1 Corinthians 9:9	For it is written in the law of Moses: “You shall not bind the mouth of an ox, while it is treading out the grain.” Is God here concerned with the oxen?
1 Corinthians 9:10	Or is he saying this, indeed, for our sake? These things were written specifically for us, because he who plows, ought to plow in hope, and he who threshes, too, in hope of receiving the produce.
1 Corinthians 9:11	If we have sown spiritual things in you, is it important if we harvest from your worldly things?
1 Corinthians 9:12	If others are sharers in this authority over you, why are we not more entitled? And yet we have not used this authority. Instead, we bear all things, lest we give any hindrance to the Gospel of Christ.
1 Corinthians 9:13	Do you not know that those who work in the holy place eat the things that are for the holy place, and that those who serve at the altar also share with the altar?
1 Corinthians 9:14	So, too, has the Lord ordained that those who announce the Gospel should live by the Gospel.
1 Corinthians 9:15	Yet I have used none of these things. And I have not written so that these things may be done for me. For it is better for me to die, rather than to let anyone empty out my glory.
1 Corinthians 9:16	For if I preach the Gospel, it is not glory for me. For an obligation has been laid upon me. And woe to me, if I do not preach the Gospel.
1 Corinthians 9:17	For if I do this willingly, I have a reward. But if I do this reluctantly, a dispensation is granted to me.
1 Corinthians 9:18	And what, then, would be my reward? So, when preaching the Gospel, I should give the Gospel without taking, so that I may not misuse my authority in the Gospel.
1 Corinthians 9:19	For when I was a free man to all, I made myself the servant of all, so that I might gain all the more.
1 Corinthians 9:20	And so, to the Jews, I became like a Jew, so that I might gain the Jews.
1 Corinthians 9:21	To those who are under the law, I became as if I were under the law, (though I was not under the law) so that I might gain those who were under the law. To those who were without the law, I became as if I were without the law, (though I was not without the law of God, being in the law of Christ) so that I might gain those who were without the law.
1 Corinthians 9:22	To the weak, I became weak, so that I might gain the weak. To all, I became all, so that I might save all.
1 Corinthians 9:23	And I do everything for the sake of the Gospel, so that I may become its partner.
1 Corinthians 9:24	Do you not know that, of those who run in a race, all of them, certainly, are runners, but only one achieves the prize. Similarly, you must run, so that you may achieve.
1 Corinthians 9:25	And one who competes in a contest abstains from all things. And they do this, of course, so that they may achieve a corruptible crown. But we do this, so that we may achieve what is incorruptible.
1 Corinthians 9:26	And so I run, but not with uncertainty. And so I fight, but not by flailing in the air.
1 Corinthians 9:27	Instead, I chastise my body, so as to redirect it into servitude. Otherwise, I might preach to others, but become myself an outcast.
1 Corinthians 10:1	For I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and they all went across the sea.
1 Corinthians 10:2	And in Moses, they all were baptized, in the cloud and in the sea.
1 Corinthians 10:3	And they all ate of the same spiritual food.
1 Corinthians 10:4	And they all drank of the same spiritual drink. And so, they all were drinking of the spiritual rock seeking to obtain them; and that rock was Christ.
1 Corinthians 10:5	But with most of them, God was not well-pleased. For they were struck down in the desert.
1 Corinthians 10:6	Now these things were done as an example for us, so that we might not desire evil things, just as they desired.
1 Corinthians 10:7	And so, do not take part in idolatry, as some of them did, just as it was written: “The people sat down to eat and to drink, and then they rose up to amuse themselves.”
1 Corinthians 10:8	And let us not commit fornication, as some of them fornicated, and so twenty-three thousand fell on one day.
1 Corinthians 10:9	And let us not tempt Christ, as some of them tempted, and so they perished by serpents.
1 Corinthians 10:10	And you should not murmur, as some of them murmured, and so they perished by the destroyer.
1 Corinthians 10:11	Now all of these things happened to them as an example, and so they have been written for our correction, because the final age has fallen upon us.
1 Corinthians 10:12	And so, whosoever considers himself to be standing, let him be careful not to fall.
1 Corinthians 10:13	Temptation should not take hold of you, except what is human. For God is faithful, and he will not permit you to be tempted beyond your ability. Instead, he will effect his Providence, even during temptation, so that you may be able to bear it.
1 Corinthians 10:14	Because of this, most beloved of mine, flee from the worship of idols.
1 Corinthians 10:15	Since I am speaking to those who are prudent, judge what I say for yourselves.
1 Corinthians 10:16	The cup of benediction that we bless, is it not a communion in the Blood of Christ? And the bread that we break, is it not a participation in the Body of the Lord?
1 Corinthians 10:17	Through the one bread, we, though many, are one body: all of us who are partakers of the one bread.
1 Corinthians 10:18	Consider Israel, according to the flesh. Are not those who eat from the sacrifices partakers of the altar?
1 Corinthians 10:19	What is next? Should I say that what is immolated to idols is anything? Or that the idol is anything?
1 Corinthians 10:20	But the things that the Gentiles immolate, they immolate to demons, and not to God. And I do not want you to become partakers with demons.
1 Corinthians 10:21	You cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of demons. You cannot be partakers of the table of the Lord, and partakers of the table of demons.
1 Corinthians 10:22	Or should we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he is? All is lawful to me, but not all is expedient.
1 Corinthians 10:23	All is lawful to me, but not all is edifying.
1 Corinthians 10:24	Let no one seek for himself, but for others.
1 Corinthians 10:25	Whatever is sold in the market, you may eat, without asking questions for the sake of conscience.
1 Corinthians 10:26	“The earth and all its fullness belong to the Lord.”
1 Corinthians 10:27	If you are invited by any unbelievers, and you are willing to go, you may eat whatever is set before you, without asking questions for the sake of conscience.
1 Corinthians 10:28	But if anyone says, “This has been sacrificed to idols,” do not eat it, for the sake of the one who told you, and for the sake of conscience.
1 Corinthians 10:29	But I am referring to the conscience of the other person, not to yours. For why should my liberty be judged by the conscience of another?
1 Corinthians 10:30	If I partake with thanksgiving, why should I be slandered over that for which I give thanks?
1 Corinthians 10:31	Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatever else you may do, do everything for the glory of God.
1 Corinthians 10:32	Be without offense toward the Jews, and toward the Gentiles, and toward the Church of God,
1 Corinthians 10:33	just as I also, in all things, please everyone, not seeking what is best for myself, but what is best for many others, so that they may be saved.
1 Corinthians 11:1	Be imitators of me, as I also am of Christ.
1 Corinthians 11:2	Now I praise you, brothers, because you are mindful of me in everything, in such a way as to hold to my precepts as I have handed them down to you.
1 Corinthians 11:3	So I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ. But the head of woman is man. Yet truly, the head of Christ is God.
1 Corinthians 11:4	Every man praying or prophesying with his head covered disgraces his head.
1 Corinthians 11:5	But every woman praying or prophesying with her head not covered disgraces her head. For it is the same as if her head were shaven.
1 Corinthians 11:6	So if a woman is not veiled, let her hair be cut off. Truly then, if it is a disgrace for a woman to have her hair cut off, or to have her head shaven, then she should cover her head.
1 Corinthians 11:7	Certainly, a man ought not to cover his head, for he is the image and glory of God. But woman is the glory of man.
1 Corinthians 11:8	For man is not of woman, but woman is of man.
1 Corinthians 11:9	And indeed, man was not created for woman, but woman was created for man.
1 Corinthians 11:10	Therefore, a woman ought to have a sign of authority on her head, because of the Angels.
1 Corinthians 11:11	Yet truly, man would not exist without woman, nor would woman exist without man, in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 11:12	For just as woman came into existence from man, so also does man exist through woman. But all things are from God.
1 Corinthians 11:13	Judge for yourselves. Is it proper for a woman to pray to God unveiled?
1 Corinthians 11:14	Does not even nature herself teach you that, indeed, if a man grows his hair long, it is a disgrace for him?
1 Corinthians 11:15	Yet truly, if a woman grows her hair long, it is a glory for her, because her hair has been given to her as a covering.
1 Corinthians 11:16	But if anyone has a mind to be contentious, we have no such custom, nor does the Church of God.
1 Corinthians 11:17	Now I caution you, without praising, about this: that you assemble together, and not for better, but for worse.
1 Corinthians 11:18	First of all, indeed, I hear that when you assemble together in the church, there are schisms among you. And I believe this, in part.
1 Corinthians 11:19	For there must also be heresies, so that those who have been tested may be made manifest among you.
1 Corinthians 11:20	And so, when you assemble together as one, it is no longer in order to eat the Lord’s supper.
1 Corinthians 11:21	For each one first takes his own supper to eat. And as a result, one person is hungry, while another is inebriated.
1 Corinthians 11:22	Do you not have houses, in which to eat and drink? Or do you have such contempt for the Church of God that you would confound those who do not have such contempt? What should I say to you? Should I praise you? I am not praising you in this.
1 Corinthians 11:23	For I have received from the Lord what I have also delivered to you: that the Lord Jesus, on the same night that he was handed over, took bread,
1 Corinthians 11:24	and giving thanks, he broke it, and said: “Take and eat. This is my body, which shall be given up for you. Do this in remembrance of me.”
1 Corinthians 11:25	Similarly also, the cup, after he had eaten supper, saying: “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.”
1 Corinthians 11:26	For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the death of the Lord, until he returns.
1 Corinthians 11:27	And so, whoever eats this bread, or drinks from the cup of the Lord, unworthily, shall be liable of the body and blood of the Lord.
1 Corinthians 11:28	But let a man examine himself, and, in this way, let him eat from that bread, and drink from that cup.
1 Corinthians 11:29	For whoever eats and drinks unworthily, eats and drinks a sentence against himself, not discerning it to be the body of the Lord.
1 Corinthians 11:30	As a result, many are weak and sick among you, and many have fallen asleep.
1 Corinthians 11:31	But if we ourselves were discerning, then certainly we would not be judged.
1 Corinthians 11:32	Yet when we are judged, we are being corrected by the Lord, so that we might not be condemned along with this world.
1 Corinthians 11:33	And so, my brothers, when you assemble together to eat, be attentive to one another.
1 Corinthians 11:34	If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, so that you may not assemble together unto judgment. As for the rest, I will set it in order when I arrive.
1 Corinthians 12:1	Now concerning spiritual things, I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers.
1 Corinthians 12:2	You know that when you were Gentiles, you approached mute idols, doing what you were led to do.
1 Corinthians 12:3	Because of this, I would have you know that no one speaking in the Spirit of God utters a curse against Jesus. And no one is able to say that Jesus is Lord, except in the Holy Spirit.
1 Corinthians 12:4	Truly, there are diverse graces, but the same Spirit.
1 Corinthians 12:5	And there are diverse ministries, but the same Lord.
1 Corinthians 12:6	And there are diverse works, but the same God, who works everything in everyone.
1 Corinthians 12:7	However, the manifestation of the Spirit is given to each one toward what is beneficial.
1 Corinthians 12:8	Certainly, to one, through the Spirit, is given words of wisdom; but to another, according to the same Spirit, words of knowledge;
1 Corinthians 12:9	to another, in the same Spirit, faith; to another, in the one Spirit, the gift of healing;
1 Corinthians 12:10	to another, miraculous works; to another, prophecy; to another, the discernment of spirits; to another, different kinds of languages; to another, the interpretation of words.
1 Corinthians 12:11	But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one according to his will.
1 Corinthians 12:12	For just as the body is one, and yet has many parts, so all the parts of the body, though they are many, are only one body. So also is Christ.
1 Corinthians 12:13	And indeed, in one Spirit, we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Gentiles, whether servant or free. And we all drank in the one Spirit.
1 Corinthians 12:14	For the body, too, is not one part, but many.
1 Corinthians 12:15	If the foot were to say, “Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body,” would it then not be of the body?
1 Corinthians 12:16	And if the ear were to say, “Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body,” would it then not be of the body?
1 Corinthians 12:17	If the whole body were the eye, how would it hear? If the whole were hearing, how would it smell?
1 Corinthians 12:18	But instead, God has placed the parts, each one of them, in the body, just as it has pleased him.
1 Corinthians 12:19	So if they were all one part, how would it be a body?
1 Corinthians 12:20	But instead, there are many parts, indeed, yet one body.
1 Corinthians 12:21	And the eye cannot say to the hand, “I have no need for your works.” And again, the head cannot say to the feet, “You are of no use to me.”
1 Corinthians 12:22	In fact, so much more necessary are those parts of the body which seem to be weaker.
1 Corinthians 12:23	And though we consider certain parts of the body to be less noble, we surround these with more abundant dignity, and so, those parts which are less presentable end up with more abundant respect.
1 Corinthians 12:24	However, our presentable parts have no such need, since God has tempered the body together, distributing the more abundant honor to that which has the need,
1 Corinthians 12:25	so that there might be no schism in the body, but instead the parts themselves might take care of one another.
1 Corinthians 12:26	And so, if one part suffers anything, all the parts suffer with it. Or, if one part finds glory, all the parts rejoice with it.
1 Corinthians 12:27	Now you are the body of Christ, and parts like any part.
1 Corinthians 12:28	And indeed, God has established a certain order in the Church: first Apostles, second Prophets, third Teachers, next miracle-workers, and then the grace of healing, of helping others, of governing, of different kinds of languages, and of the interpretation of words.
1 Corinthians 12:29	Are all Apostles? Are all Prophets? Are all Teachers?
1 Corinthians 12:30	Are all workers of miracles? Do all have the grace of healing? Do all speak in tongues? Do all interpret?
1 Corinthians 12:31	But be zealous for the better charisms. And I reveal to you a yet more excellent way.
1 Corinthians 13:1	If I were to speak in the language of men, or of Angels, yet not have charity, I would be like a clanging bell or a crashing cymbal.
1 Corinthians 13:2	And if I have prophecy, and learn every mystery, and obtain all knowledge, and possess all faith, so that I could move mountains, yet not have charity, then I am nothing.
1 Corinthians 13:3	And if I distribute all my goods in order to feed the poor, and if I hand over my body to be burned, yet not have charity, it offers me nothing.
1 Corinthians 13:4	Charity is patient, is kind. Charity does not envy, does not act wrongly, is not inflated.
1 Corinthians 13:5	Charity is not ambitious, does not seek for itself, is not provoked to anger, devises no evil.
1 Corinthians 13:6	Charity does not rejoice over iniquity, but rejoices in truth.
1 Corinthians 13:7	Charity suffers all, believes all, hopes all, endures all.
1 Corinthians 13:8	Charity is never torn away, even if prophecies pass away, or languages cease, or knowledge is destroyed.
1 Corinthians 13:9	For we know only in part, and we prophesy only in part.
1 Corinthians 13:10	But when the perfect arrives, the imperfect passes away.
1 Corinthians 13:11	When I was a child, I spoke like a child, I understood like a child, I thought like a child. But when I became a man, I put aside the things of a child.
1 Corinthians 13:12	Now we see through a glass darkly. But then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part, but then I shall know, even as I am known.
1 Corinthians 13:13	But for now, these three continue: faith, hope, and charity. And the greatest of these is charity.
1 Corinthians 14:1	Pursue charity. Be zealous for spiritual things, but only so that you may prophesy.
1 Corinthians 14:2	For whoever speaks in tongues, speaks not to men, but to God. For no one understands. Yet by the Spirit, he speaks mysteries.
1 Corinthians 14:3	But whoever prophesies speaks to men for edification and exhortation and consolation.
1 Corinthians 14:4	Whoever speaks in tongues edifies himself. But whoever prophesies edifies the Church.
1 Corinthians 14:5	Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but more so to prophesy. For he who prophesies is greater than he who speaks in tongues, unless perhaps he interprets, so that the Church may receive edification.
1 Corinthians 14:6	But now, brothers, if I were to come to you speaking in tongues, how would it benefit you, unless instead I speak to you in revelation, or in knowledge, or in prophecy, or in doctrine?
1 Corinthians 14:7	Even those things that are without a soul can make sounds, whether it is a wind or a stringed instrument. But unless they present a distinction within the sounds, how will it be known which is from the pipe and which is from the string?
1 Corinthians 14:8	For example, if the trumpet made an uncertain sound, who would prepare himself for battle?
1 Corinthians 14:9	So it is with you also, for unless you utter with the tongue in plain speech, how will it be known what is said? For then you would be speaking into the air.
1 Corinthians 14:10	Consider that there are so many different kinds of languages in this world, and yet none is without a voice.
1 Corinthians 14:11	Therefore, if I do not understand the nature of the voice, then I shall be like a foreigner to the one with whom I am speaking; and he who is speaking will be like a foreigner to me.
1 Corinthians 14:12	So it is with you also. And since you are zealous for what is spiritual, seek the edification of the Church, so that you may abound.
1 Corinthians 14:13	For this reason, too, whoever speaks in tongues, let him pray for the interpretation.
1 Corinthians 14:14	So, if I pray in tongues, my spirit prays, but my mind is without fruit.
1 Corinthians 14:15	What is next? I should pray with the spirit, and also pray with the mind. I should sing psalms with the spirit, and also recite psalms with the mind.
1 Corinthians 14:16	Otherwise, if you have blessed only with the spirit, how can someone, in a state of ignorance, add an “Amen” to your blessing? For he does not know what you are saying.
1 Corinthians 14:17	In this case, certainly, you give thanks well, but the other person is not edified.
1 Corinthians 14:18	I thank my God that I speak in tongues for all of you.
1 Corinthians 14:19	But in the Church, I prefer to speak five words from my mind, so that I may instruct others also, rather than ten thousand words in tongues.
1 Corinthians 14:20	Brothers, do not choose to have the minds of children. Instead, be free of malice like infants, but be mature in your minds.
1 Corinthians 14:21	It is written in the law: “I will speak to this people with other tongues and other lips, and even so, they will not heed me, says the Lord.”
1 Corinthians 14:22	And so, tongues are a sign, not for believers, but for unbelievers; and prophecies are not for unbelievers, but for believers.
1 Corinthians 14:23	If then, the entire Church were to gather together as one, and if all were to speak in tongues, and then ignorant or unbelieving persons were to enter, would they not say that you were insane?
1 Corinthians 14:24	But if everyone prophesies, and one who is ignorant or unbelieving enters, he may be convinced by it all, because he understands it all.
1 Corinthians 14:25	The secrets of his heart are then made manifest. And so, falling to his face, he would adore God, proclaiming that God is truly among you.
1 Corinthians 14:26	What is next, brothers? When you gather together, each one of you may have a psalm, or a doctrine, or a revelation, or a language, or an interpretation, but let everything be done for edification.
1 Corinthians 14:27	If anyone is speaking in tongues, let there be only two, or at most three, and then in turn, and let someone interpret.
1 Corinthians 14:28	But if there is no one to interpret, he should remain silent in the church, then he may speak when he is alone with God.
1 Corinthians 14:29	And let the prophets speak, two or three, and let the others discern.
1 Corinthians 14:30	But then, if something is revealed to another who is sitting, let the first one become silent.
1 Corinthians 14:31	For you are all able to prophesy one at a time, so that all may learn and all may be encouraged.
1 Corinthians 14:32	For the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets.
1 Corinthians 14:33	And God is not of dissension, but of peace, just as I also teach in all the churches of the saints.
1 Corinthians 14:34	Women should be silent in the churches. For it is not permitted for them to speak; but instead, they should be subordinate, as the law also says.
1 Corinthians 14:35	And if they want to learn anything, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in church.
1 Corinthians 14:36	So now, did the Word of God proceed from you? Or was it sent to you alone?
1 Corinthians 14:37	If anyone seems to be a prophet or a spiritual person, he should understand these things which I am writing to you, that these things are the commandments of the Lord.
1 Corinthians 14:38	If anyone does not recognize these things, he should not be recognized.
1 Corinthians 14:39	And so, brothers, be zealous to prophesy, and do not prohibit speaking in tongues.
1 Corinthians 14:40	But let everything be done respectfully and according to proper order.
1 Corinthians 15:1	And so I make known to you, brothers, the Gospel that I preached to you, which you also received, and on which you stand.
1 Corinthians 15:2	By the Gospel, too, you are being saved, if you hold to the understanding that I preached to you, lest you believe in vain.
1 Corinthians 15:3	For I handed on to you, first of all, what I also received: that Christ died for our sins, according to the Scriptures;
1 Corinthians 15:4	and that he was buried; and that he rose again on the third day, according to the Scriptures;
1 Corinthians 15:5	and that he was seen by Cephas, and after that by the eleven.
1 Corinthians 15:6	Next he was seen by more than five hundred brothers at one time, many of whom remain, even to the present time, although some have fallen asleep.
1 Corinthians 15:7	Next, he was seen by James, then by all the Apostles.
1 Corinthians 15:8	And last of all, he was seen also by me, as if I were someone born at the wrong time.
1 Corinthians 15:9	For I am the least of the Apostles. I am not worthy to be called an Apostle, because I persecuted the Church of God.
1 Corinthians 15:10	But, by the grace of God, I am what I am. And his grace in me has not been empty, since I have labored more abundantly than all of them. Yet it is not I, but the grace of God within me.
1 Corinthians 15:11	For whether it is I or they: so we preach, and so you have believed.
1 Corinthians 15:12	Now if Christ is preached, that he rose again from the dead, how is it that some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?
1 Corinthians 15:13	For if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ has not risen.
1 Corinthians 15:14	And if Christ has not risen, then our preaching is useless, and your faith is also useless.
1 Corinthians 15:15	Then, too, we would be found to be false witnesses of God, because we would have given testimony against God, saying that he had raised up Christ, when he had not raised him up, if, indeed, the dead do not rise again.
1 Corinthians 15:16	For if the dead do not rise again, then neither has Christ risen again.
1 Corinthians 15:17	But if Christ has not risen, then your faith is vain; for you would still be in your sins.
1 Corinthians 15:18	Then, too, those who have fallen asleep in Christ would have perished.
1 Corinthians 15:19	If we have hope in Christ for this life only, then we are more miserable than all men.
1 Corinthians 15:20	But now Christ has risen again from the dead, as the first-fruits of those who sleep.
1 Corinthians 15:21	For certainly, death came through a man. And so, the resurrection of the dead came through a man
1 Corinthians 15:22	And just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be brought to life,
1 Corinthians 15:23	but each one in his proper order: Christ, as the first-fruits, and next, those who are of Christ, who have believed in his advent.
1 Corinthians 15:24	Afterwards is the end, when he will have handed over the kingdom to God the Father, when he will have emptied all principality, and authority, and power.
1 Corinthians 15:25	For it is necessary for him to reign, until he has set all his enemies under his feet.
1 Corinthians 15:26	Lastly, the enemy called death shall be destroyed. For he has subjected all things under his feet. And although he says,
1 Corinthians 15:27	“All things have been subjected to him,” without doubt he does not include the One who has subjected all things to him.
1 Corinthians 15:28	And when all things will have been subjected to him, then even the Son himself will be subjected to the One who subjected all things to him, so that God may be all in all.
1 Corinthians 15:29	Otherwise, what will those who are being baptized for the dead do, if the dead do not rise again at all? Why then are they being baptized for them?
1 Corinthians 15:30	Why also do we endure trials every hour?
1 Corinthians 15:31	Daily I die, by means of your boasting, brothers: you whom I have in Christ Jesus our Lord.
1 Corinthians 15:32	If, according to man, I fought with the beasts at Ephesus, how would that benefit me, if the dead do not rise again? “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we shall die.”
1 Corinthians 15:33	Do not be led astray. Evil communication corrupts good morals.
1 Corinthians 15:34	Be vigilant, you just ones, and do not be willing to sin. For certain persons have an ignorance of God. I say this to you with respect.
1 Corinthians 15:35	But someone may say, “How do the dead rise again?” or, “What type of body do they return with?”
1 Corinthians 15:36	How foolish! What you sow cannot be brought back to life, unless it first dies.
1 Corinthians 15:37	And what you sow is not the body that will be in the future, but a bare grain, such as of wheat, or of some other grain.
1 Corinthians 15:38	For God gives it a body according to his will, and according to each seed’s proper body.
1 Corinthians 15:39	Not all flesh is the same flesh. But one is indeed of men, another truly is of beasts, another is of birds, and another is of fish.
1 Corinthians 15:40	Also, there are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies. But while the one, certainly, has the glory of heaven, the other has the glory of earth.
1 Corinthians 15:41	One has the brightness of the sun, another the brightness of the moon, and another the brightness of the stars. For even star differs from star in brightness.
1 Corinthians 15:42	So it is also with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown in corruption shall rise to incorruption.
1 Corinthians 15:43	What is sown in dishonor shall rise to glory. What is sown in weakness shall rise to power.
1 Corinthians 15:44	What is sown with an animal body shall rise with a spiritual body. If there is an animal body, there is also a spiritual one.
1 Corinthians 15:45	Just as it was written that the first man, Adam, was made with a living soul, so shall the last Adam be made with a spirit brought back to life.
1 Corinthians 15:46	So what is, at first, not spiritual, but animal, next becomes spiritual.
1 Corinthians 15:47	The first man, being earthly, was of the earth; the second man, being heavenly, will be of heaven.
1 Corinthians 15:48	Such things as are like the earth are earthly; and such things as are like the heavens are heavenly.
1 Corinthians 15:49	And so, just as we have carried the image of what is earthly, let us also carry the image of what is heavenly.
1 Corinthians 15:50	Now I say this, brothers, because flesh and blood is not able to possess the kingdom of God; neither will what is corrupt possess what is incorrupt.
1 Corinthians 15:51	Behold, I tell you a mystery. Certainly, we shall all rise again, but we shall not all be transformed:
1 Corinthians 15:52	in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will rise up, incorruptible. And we shall be transformed.
1 Corinthians 15:53	Thus, it is necessary for this corruptibility to be clothed with incorruptibility, and for this mortality to be clothed with immortality.
1 Corinthians 15:54	And when this mortality has been clothed with immortality, then the word that was written shall occur: “Death is swallowed up in victory.”
1 Corinthians 15:55	“O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting?”
1 Corinthians 15:56	Now the sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
1 Corinthians 15:57	But thanks be to God, who has given us victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 15:58	And so, my beloved brothers, be steadfast and unmovable, abounding always in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not useless in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 16:1	Now concerning the collections which are made for the saints: just as I have arranged for the churches of Galatia, so should it also be done with you.
1 Corinthians 16:2	On the first day of the week, the Sabbath, let each one of you take from himself, setting aside what will be well-pleasing to him, so that when I arrive, the collections will not have to be made then.
1 Corinthians 16:3	And when I am present, whomever you shall approve through letters, these I shall send to bear your gifts to Jerusalem.
1 Corinthians 16:4	And if it is fitting for me to go too, they shall go with me.
1 Corinthians 16:5	Now I will visit you after I have passed through Macedonia. For I will pass through Macedonia.
1 Corinthians 16:6	And perhaps I will stay with you, and even spend the winter, so that you may lead me on my way, whenever I depart.
1 Corinthians 16:7	For I am not willing to see you now only in passing, since I hope that I may remain with you for some length of time, if the Lord permits.
1 Corinthians 16:8	But I must remain at Ephesus, even until Pentecost.
1 Corinthians 16:9	For a door, great and unavoidable, has opened to me, as well as many adversaries.
1 Corinthians 16:10	Now if Timothy arrives, see to it that he may be among you without fear. For he is doing the work of the Lord, just as I also do.
1 Corinthians 16:11	Therefore, let no one despise him. Instead, lead him on his way in peace, so that he may come to me. For I am awaiting him with the brothers.
1 Corinthians 16:12	But concerning our brother, Apollo, I am letting you know that I pleaded with him greatly to go to you with the brothers, and clearly it was not his will to go at this time. But he will arrive when there is a space of time for him.
1 Corinthians 16:13	Be vigilant. Stand with faith. Act manfully and be strengthened.
1 Corinthians 16:14	Let all that is yours be immersed in charity.
1 Corinthians 16:15	And I beg you, brothers: You know the house of Stephanus, and of Fortunatus, and of Achaicus, that they are the first-fruits of Achaia, and that they have dedicated themselves to the ministry of the saints.
1 Corinthians 16:16	So you should be subject also to persons such as this, as well as to all who are cooperating and working with them.
1 Corinthians 16:17	Now I rejoice in the presence of Stephanus and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because what was lacking in you, they have supplied.
1 Corinthians 16:18	For they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore, recognize persons such as this.
1 Corinthians 16:19	The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you greatly in the Lord, with the church of their household, where I also am a guest.
1 Corinthians 16:20	All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
1 Corinthians 16:21	This is a greeting from my own hand, Paul.
1 Corinthians 16:22	If anyone does not love our Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema! Maran Atha.
1 Corinthians 16:23	May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
1 Corinthians 16:24	My charity is with all of you in Christ Jesus. Amen.
2 Corinthians 1:1	Paul, an Apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy, a brother, to the church of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in all of Achaia:
2 Corinthians 1:2	Grace and peace to you from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Corinthians 1:3	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and the God of all consolation.
2 Corinthians 1:4	He consoles us in all our tribulation, so that we too may be able to console those who are in any kind of distress, through the exhortation by which we also are being exhorted by God.
2 Corinthians 1:5	For just as the Passion of Christ abounds in us, so also, through Christ, does our consolation abound.
2 Corinthians 1:6	So, if we are in tribulation, it is for your exhortation and salvation, or if we are in consolation, it is for your consolation, or if we are exhorted, it is for your exhortation and salvation, which results in the patience endurance of the same passion which we also endure.
2 Corinthians 1:7	So may our hope for you be made firm, knowing that, just as you are participants in the suffering, so also shall you be participants in the consolation.
2 Corinthians 1:8	For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, about our tribulation, which happened to us in Asia. For we were weighed down beyond measure, beyond our strength, so that we became weary, even of life itself.
2 Corinthians 1:9	But we had within ourselves the response to death, so that we would not have faith in ourselves, but in God, who raises the dead.
2 Corinthians 1:10	He has rescued us, and he is rescuing us, from great peril. In him, we hope that he will continue to rescue us.
2 Corinthians 1:11	And you are assisting, with your prayers for us, so that from many persons, by that which is a gift in us, thanks may be given through many persons, because of us.
2 Corinthians 1:12	For our glory is this: the testimony of our conscience, which is found in simplicity of heart and in sincerity toward God. And it is not with worldly wisdom, but in the grace of God, that we have conversed with this world, and more abundantly toward you.
2 Corinthians 1:13	For we write nothing else to you other than what you have read and understood. And I hope that you will continue to understand, even unto the end.
2 Corinthians 1:14	And just as you have acknowledged us in our role, that we are your glory, so also you are ours, unto the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Corinthians 1:15	And with this confidence, I wanted to come to you sooner, so that you might have a second grace,
2 Corinthians 1:16	and through you to pass into Macedonia, and to return to you again from Macedonia, and so be led by you on my way to Judea.
2 Corinthians 1:17	Then, although I had intended this, did I act lightly? Or in the things that I consider, do I consider according to the flesh, so that there would be, with me, both Yes and No?
2 Corinthians 1:18	But God is faithful, so our word, which was set before you, was not, in him, both Yes and No.
2 Corinthians 1:19	For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you through us, through myself and Sylvanus and Timothy, was not Yes, and No; but was simply Yes in him.
2 Corinthians 1:20	For whatever promises are of God are, in him, Yes. For this reason, too, through him: Amen to God for our glory.
2 Corinthians 1:21	Now the One who confirms us with you in Christ, and who has anointed us, is God.
2 Corinthians 1:22	And he has sealed us, and he has placed the pledge of the Spirit in our hearts.
2 Corinthians 1:23	But I call God as a witness to my soul, that I was lenient with you, in that I did not return to Corinth:
2 Corinthians 1:24	not because we have dominion over your faith, but because we are assistants of your joy. For by faith you stand.
2 Corinthians 2:1	But I determined this within myself, not to return again to you in sorrow.
2 Corinthians 2:2	For if I make you sorrowful, then who is it that can make me glad, except the one who is made sorrowful by me?
2 Corinthians 2:3	And so, I wrote this same thing to you, so that I might not, when I arrive, add sorrow to sorrow for those with whom I ought to rejoice, having confidence in you in all things, so that my joy may be entirely yours.
2 Corinthians 2:4	For with much tribulation and anguish of heart, I wrote to you with many tears: not so that you would be sorrowful, but so that you might know the charity that I have more abundantly toward you.
2 Corinthians 2:5	But if anyone has brought sorrow, he has not sorrowed me. Yet, for my part, this is so that I might not burden all of you.
2 Corinthians 2:6	Let this rebuke be sufficient for someone like this, for it has been brought by many.
2 Corinthians 2:7	So then, to the contrary, you should be more forgiving and consoling, lest perhaps someone like this may be overwhelmed with excessive sorrow.
2 Corinthians 2:8	Because of this, I beg you to confirm your charity toward him.
2 Corinthians 2:9	It was for this reason, also, that I wrote, so that I might know, by testing you, whether you would be obedient in all things.
2 Corinthians 2:10	But anyone whom you have forgiven of anything, I also forgive. And then, too, anyone I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, it was done in the person of Christ for your sakes,
2 Corinthians 2:11	so that we would not be circumvented by Satan. For we are not ignorant of his intentions.
2 Corinthians 2:12	And when I had arrived at Troas, because of the Gospel of Christ, and a door had opened to me in the Lord,
2 Corinthians 2:13	I had no rest within my spirit, because I was not able to find Titus, my brother. So, saying goodbye to them, I set out for Macedonia.
2 Corinthians 2:14	But thanks be to God, who always brings triumph to us in Christ Jesus, and who manifests the fragrance of his knowledge through us in every place.
2 Corinthians 2:15	For we are the sweet fragrance of Christ for God, both with those who are being saved and with those who are perishing.
2 Corinthians 2:16	To the one, certainly, the fragrance is of death unto death. But to the other, the fragrance is of life unto life. And concerning these things, who is so suitable?
2 Corinthians 2:17	For we are not like many others, adulterating the Word of God. But instead, we speak with sincerity: from God, before God, and in Christ.
2 Corinthians 3:1	Must we begin again to commend ourselves? Or are we in need (as some are) of epistles of commendation for you, or from you?
2 Corinthians 3:2	You are our Epistle, written in our hearts, which is known and read by all men.
2 Corinthians 3:3	It has been made manifest that you are the Epistle of Christ, ministered by us, and written down, not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God, and not on tablets of stone, but on the fleshly tablets of the heart.
2 Corinthians 3:4	And we have such faith, through Christ, toward God.
2 Corinthians 3:5	It is not that we are adequate to think anything of ourselves, as if anything was from us. But our adequacy is from God.
2 Corinthians 3:6	And he has made us suitable ministers of the New Testament, not in the letter, but in the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.
2 Corinthians 3:7	But if the ministration of death, engraved with letters upon stones, was in glory, (so much so that the sons of Israel were not able to gaze intently upon the face of Moses, because of the glory of his countenance) even though this ministration was ineffective,
2 Corinthians 3:8	how could the ministration of the Spirit not be in greater glory?
2 Corinthians 3:9	For if the ministration of condemnation is with glory, so much more is the ministration of justice abundant in glory.
2 Corinthians 3:10	And neither was it glorified by means of an excellent glory, though it was made illustrious in its own way.
2 Corinthians 3:11	For if even what was temporary has its glory, then what is lasting has an even greater glory.
2 Corinthians 3:12	Therefore, having such a hope, we act with much confidence,
2 Corinthians 3:13	and not as Moses did, in placing a veil over his face, so that the sons of Israel would not gaze intently at his face. This was ineffective,
2 Corinthians 3:14	for their minds were obtuse. And, even until this present day, the very same veil, in the readings from the Old Testament, remains not taken away (though, in Christ, it is taken away).
2 Corinthians 3:15	But even until today, when Moses is read, a veil is still set over their hearts.
2 Corinthians 3:16	But when they will have been converted to the Lord, then the veil shall be taken away.
2 Corinthians 3:17	Now the Spirit is Lord. And wherever the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty.
2 Corinthians 3:18	Yet truly, all of us, as we gaze upon the unveiled glory of the face of the Lord, are transfigured into the same image, from one glory to another. And this is done by the Spirit of the Lord.
2 Corinthians 4:1	Therefore, since we have this ministry, and in as much as we have obtained mercy for ourselves, we are not inadequate.
2 Corinthians 4:2	For we renounce dishonorable and hidden acts, not walking by craftiness, nor by adulterating the Word of God. Instead, by the manifestation of truth, we commend ourselves to the conscience of each man before God.
2 Corinthians 4:3	But if our Gospel is in some way hidden, it is hidden to those who are perishing.
2 Corinthians 4:4	As for them, the god of this age has blinded the minds of unbelievers, so that the light of the Gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, would not shine in them.
2 Corinthians 4:5	For we are not preaching about ourselves, but about Jesus Christ our Lord. We are merely your servants through Jesus.
2 Corinthians 4:6	For God, who told the light to shine out of darkness, has shined a light into our hearts, to illuminate the knowledge of the splendor of God, in the person of Christ Jesus.
2 Corinthians 4:7	But we hold this treasure in earthen vessels, so that what is sublime may be of the power of God, and not of us.
2 Corinthians 4:8	In all things, we endure tribulation, yet we are not in anguish. We are constrained, yet we are not destitute.
2 Corinthians 4:9	We suffer persecution, yet we have not been abandoned. We are thrown down, yet we do not perish.
2 Corinthians 4:10	We ever carry around the mortification of Jesus in our bodies, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies.
2 Corinthians 4:11	For we who live are ever handed over unto death for the sake of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our mortal flesh.
2 Corinthians 4:12	Therefore, death is at work in us, and life is at work in you.
2 Corinthians 4:13	But we have the same Spirit of faith. And just as it is written, “I believed, and for that reason I spoke,” so we also believe, and for that reason, we also speak.
2 Corinthians 4:14	For we know that the One who raised up Jesus will raise us up also with Jesus and will place us with you.
2 Corinthians 4:15	Thus, all is for you, so that grace, abounding through many in thanksgiving, may abound to the glory of God.
2 Corinthians 4:16	For this reason, we are not insufficient. But it is as though our outer man is corrupted, while our inner man is renewed from day to day.
2 Corinthians 4:17	For though our tribulation is, at the present time, brief and light, it accomplishes in us the weight of a sublime eternal glory, beyond measure.
2 Corinthians 4:18	And we are contemplating, not the things that are seen, but the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are temporal, whereas the things that are not seen are eternal.
2 Corinthians 5:1	For we know that, when our earthly house of this habitation is dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in heaven.
2 Corinthians 5:2	And for this reason also, we groan, desiring to be clothed from above with our habitation from heaven.
2 Corinthians 5:3	If we are so clothed, then we will not be found to be naked.
2 Corinthians 5:4	Then too, we who are in this tabernacle groan under the burden, because we do not want to be stripped, but rather to be clothed from above, so that what is mortal may be absorbed by life.
2 Corinthians 5:5	Now the One who accomplishes this very thing in us is God, who has given us the pledge of the Spirit.
2 Corinthians 5:6	Therefore, we are ever confident, knowing that, while we are in the body, we are on a pilgrimage in the Lord.
2 Corinthians 5:7	For we walk by means of faith, and not by sight.
2 Corinthians 5:8	So we are confident, and we have the good will to be on a pilgrimage in the body, so as to be present to the Lord.
2 Corinthians 5:9	And thus we struggle, whether absent or present, to please him.
2 Corinthians 5:10	For it is necessary for us to be manifested before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive the proper things of the body, according to his behavior, whether it was good or evil.
2 Corinthians 5:11	Therefore, having knowledge of the fear of the Lord, we appeal to men, but we are made manifest before God. Yet I hope, too, that we may be made manifest in your consciences.
2 Corinthians 5:12	We are not commending ourselves again to you, but rather we are presenting you with an opportunity to glory because of us, when you deal with those who glory in face, and not in heart.
2 Corinthians 5:13	For if we are excessive in mind, it is for God; but if we are sober, it is for you.
2 Corinthians 5:14	For the charity of Christ urges us on, in consideration of this: that if one died for all, then all have died.
2 Corinthians 5:15	And Christ died for all, so that even those who live might not now live for themselves, but for him who died for them and who rose again.
2 Corinthians 5:16	And so, from now on, we know no one according to the flesh. And though we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we know him in this way no longer.
2 Corinthians 5:17	So if anyone is a new creature in Christ, what is old has passed away. Behold, all things have been made new.
2 Corinthians 5:18	But all is of God, who has reconciled us to himself through Christ, and who has given us the ministry of reconciliation.
2 Corinthians 5:19	For certainly God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, not charging them with their sins. And he has placed in us the Word of reconciliation.
2 Corinthians 5:20	Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, so that God is exhorting through us. We beseech you for Christ: be reconciled to God.
2 Corinthians 5:21	For God made him who did not know sin to be sin for us, so that we might become the justice of God in him.
2 Corinthians 6:1	But, as a help to you, we exhort you not to receive the grace of God in vain.
2 Corinthians 6:2	For he says: “In a favorable time, I heeded you; and on the day of salvation, I helped you.” Behold, now is the favorable time; behold, now is the day of salvation.
2 Corinthians 6:3	May we never give offense to anyone, so that our ministry may not be disparaged.
2 Corinthians 6:4	But in all things, let us exhibit ourselves as ministers of God with great patience: through tribulation, difficulties, and distress;
2 Corinthians 6:5	despite wounds, imprisonment, and rebellion; with hard work, vigilance, and fasting;
2 Corinthians 6:6	by chastity, knowledge, and longsuffering; in pleasantness, in the Holy Spirit, and in unfeigned charity;
2 Corinthians 6:7	with the Word of truth, with the power of God, and with the armor of justice to the right and to the left;
2 Corinthians 6:8	through honor and dishonor, despite good reports and bad, whether seen as deceivers or truth-tellers, whether ignored or acknowledged;
2 Corinthians 6:9	as if dying and yet truly alive; as if chastised and yet not subdued;
2 Corinthians 6:10	as if sorrowful and yet always rejoicing; as if needy and yet enriching many; as if having nothing and possessing everything.
2 Corinthians 6:11	Our mouth is open to you, O Corinthians; our heart is enlarged.
2 Corinthians 6:12	You are not narrowed by us, but it is by your own inner selves that you are narrowed.
2 Corinthians 6:13	But since we have the same recompense, (I am speaking as if to my own sons), you, too, should be enlarged.
2 Corinthians 6:14	Do not choose to bear the yoke with unbelievers. For how can justice be a participant with iniquity? Or how can the fellowship of light be a participant with darkness?
2 Corinthians 6:15	And how can Christ join together with Belial? Or what part do the faithful have with the unfaithful?
2 Corinthians 6:16	And what consensus does the temple of God have with idols? For you are the temple of the living God, just as God says: “I will dwell with them, and I will walk among them. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
2 Corinthians 6:17	Because of this, you must depart from their midst and be separate, says the Lord. And do not touch what is unclean.
2 Corinthians 6:18	Then I will accept you. And I will be a Father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty.”
2 Corinthians 7:1	Therefore, having these promises, most beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of the flesh and of the spirit, perfecting sanctification in the fear of God.
2 Corinthians 7:2	Consider us. We have injured no one; we have corrupted no one; we have defrauded no one.
2 Corinthians 7:3	I am not saying this to your condemnation. For we have told you before that you are in our hearts: to die together and to live together.
2 Corinthians 7:4	Great is my confidence in you. Great is my glorying over you. I have been filled with consolation. I have a superabundant joy throughout all our tribulation.
2 Corinthians 7:5	Then, too, when we had arrived in Macedonia, our flesh had no rest. Instead, we suffered every tribulation: exterior conflicts, interior fears.
2 Corinthians 7:6	But God, who consoles the humble, consoled us by the arrival of Titus,
2 Corinthians 7:7	and not only by his arrival, but also by the consolation with which he was consoled among you. For he brought to us your desire, your weeping, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced all the more.
2 Corinthians 7:8	For though I made you sorrowful by my epistle, I do not repent. And if I did repent, but only for a time, having realized that the same epistle made you sorrowful,
2 Corinthians 7:9	now I am glad: not because you were sorrowful, but because you were sorrowful unto repentance. For you became sorrowful for God, so that you might not suffer any harm from us.
2 Corinthians 7:10	For the sorrow that is according to God accomplishes a repentance which is steadfast unto salvation. But the sorrow that is of the world accomplishes death.
2 Corinthians 7:11	So consider this same idea, being sorrowful according to God, and what great solicitude it accomplishes in you: including protection, and indignation, and fear, and desire, and zeal, and vindication. In all things, you have shown yourselves to be uncorrupted by this sorrow.
2 Corinthians 7:12	And so, though I wrote to you, it was not because of him who caused the injury, nor because of him who suffered from it, but so as to manifest our solicitude, which we have for you before God.
2 Corinthians 7:13	Therefore, we have been consoled. But in our consolation, we have rejoiced even more abundantly over the joy of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed by all of you.
2 Corinthians 7:14	And if I have gloried in anything to him about you, I have not been put to shame. But, just as we have spoken all things to you in truth, so also our glorying before Titus has been the truth.
2 Corinthians 7:15	And his feelings are now more abundant toward you, since he remembers the obedience of you all, and how you received him with fear and trembling.
2 Corinthians 7:16	I rejoice that in all things I have confidence in you.
2 Corinthians 8:1	And so we are making known to you, brothers, the grace of God that has been given in the churches of Macedonia.
2 Corinthians 8:2	For within a great experience of tribulation, they have had an abundance of joy, and their profound poverty has only increased the richness of their simplicity.
2 Corinthians 8:3	And I bear witness to them, that they were willing to accept what was in accord with their ability, and even what was beyond their ability.
2 Corinthians 8:4	For they were begging us, with great exhortation, for the grace and the communication of the ministry that is with the saints.
2 Corinthians 8:5	And this is beyond what we had hoped, since they gave themselves, first of all to the Lord, and then also to us, through the will of God,
2 Corinthians 8:6	so much so that we petitioned Titus, that in the same manner as he had begun, he would also complete in you this same grace.
2 Corinthians 8:7	But, just as in all things you abound in faith and in word and in knowledge and in all solicitude, and even more so in your charity toward us, so also may you abound in this grace.
2 Corinthians 8:8	I am speaking, not commanding. But through the solicitude of others, I approve of the good character of your charity.
2 Corinthians 8:9	For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, he became poor for your sakes, so that through his poverty, you might become rich.
2 Corinthians 8:10	And about this, I give my counsel. For this is useful to those of you who, only a year earlier, had just begun to act, or even to be willing to act.
2 Corinthians 8:11	So, truly now, accomplish this in deed, so that, in the same manner as your willing mind is prompted, you may also act, out of that which you have.
2 Corinthians 8:12	For when the will is prompted, it receives according to what that person has, not according to what that person does not have.
2 Corinthians 8:13	And it is not that others should be relieved, while you are troubled, but that there should be an equality.
2 Corinthians 8:14	In this present time, let your abundance supply their need, so that their abundance may also supply your need, in order that there may be an equality, just as it was written:
2 Corinthians 8:15	“He with more did not have too much; and he with less did not have too little.”
2 Corinthians 8:16	But thanks be to God, who has granted to the heart of Titus, this same solicitude for you.
2 Corinthians 8:17	For certainly, he accepted the exhortation. But since he was more solicitous, he went to you of his own free will.
2 Corinthians 8:18	And we have even sent with him a brother whose praise accompanies the Gospel throughout all the churches.
2 Corinthians 8:19	And not only that, but he was also chosen by the churches to be a companion for our sojourn in this grace, which is ministered by us with our determined will, to the glory of the Lord.
2 Corinthians 8:20	So let us avoid this, lest anyone disparage us over the abundance that is ministered by us.
2 Corinthians 8:21	For we provide for what is good, not only in the sight of God, but also in the sight of men.
2 Corinthians 8:22	And we have also sent with them our brother, whom we have proven to be frequently solicitous in many matters. But now there is a greater solicitousness, which is greatly entrusted to you;
2 Corinthians 8:23	and whether it concerns Titus, who is a companion to me and a helper to you, or whether it concerns our brothers, the Apostles of the churches, it is to the glory of Christ.
2 Corinthians 8:24	Therefore, in the sight of the churches, show them the proof of your charity and of our glorying about you.
2 Corinthians 9:1	Now, concerning the ministry that is done toward the saints, it is not necessary for me to write to you.
2 Corinthians 9:2	For I know your willing mind. I glory about you, concerning this, to the Macedonians. For Achaia has also been prepared, for the past year. And your example has inspired very many others.
2 Corinthians 9:3	Now I have sent the brothers, so that what we glory about concerning you might be not be empty in this matter, in order that (as I have explained) you may be prepared.
2 Corinthians 9:4	Otherwise, if the Macedonians arrive with me and find you unprepared, we (not to mention you) would be ashamed in this matter.
2 Corinthians 9:5	Therefore, I considered it necessary to ask the brothers to go to you in advance and to prepare this blessing as promised, and in this way, you may be ready as a blessing, not as an excess.
2 Corinthians 9:6	But I say this: Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly. And whoever sows with blessings shall also reap from blessings:
2 Corinthians 9:7	each one giving, just as he has determined in his heart, neither out of sadness, nor out of obligation. For God loves a cheerful giver.
2 Corinthians 9:8	And God is able to make every grace abound in you, so that, always having what you need in all things, you may abound unto every good work,
2 Corinthians 9:9	just as it was written: “He has distributed widely, he has given to the poor; his justice remains from age to age.”
2 Corinthians 9:10	And he who ministers seed to the sower will offer you bread to eat, and will multiply your seed, and will increase the growth of the fruits of your justice.
2 Corinthians 9:11	So then, having been enriched in all things, you may abound in all simplicity, which works thanksgiving to God through us.
2 Corinthians 9:12	For the ministration of this office not only supplies whatever the saints need, but also abounds through many thanksgivings in the Lord.
2 Corinthians 9:13	And so, through the evidence of this ministry, you glorify God by the obedience of your confession in the Gospel of Christ, and by the simplicity of your communion with them and with everyone,
2 Corinthians 9:14	and they offer prayers for you, being solicitous about you, because of the excellent grace of God within you.
2 Corinthians 9:15	Thanks be to God for his ineffable gift.
2 Corinthians 10:1	But I myself, Paul, am begging you, through the meekness and modesty of Christ. I am certainly, by appearances, lowly among you, yet I have confidence in you, even while I am absent.
2 Corinthians 10:2	So I am petitioning you, lest I be bold, when present, with that bold confidence that I am considered to have by certain ones who judge us as if we were walking according to the flesh.
2 Corinthians 10:3	For though we walk in the flesh, we do not battle according to the flesh.
2 Corinthians 10:4	For the weapons of our battles are not carnal, yet still they are powerful with God, unto the destruction of fortifications: tearing down every counsel
2 Corinthians 10:5	and height that extols itself contrary to the wisdom of God, and leading every intellect into the captivity of obedience to Christ,
2 Corinthians 10:6	and standing ready to repudiate every disobedience, when your own obedience has been fulfilled.
2 Corinthians 10:7	Consider the things that are in accord with appearances. If anyone trusts that by these things he belongs to Christ, let him reconsider this within himself. For just as he belongs to Christ, so also do we.
2 Corinthians 10:8	And if I were even to glory somewhat more about our authority, which the Lord has given to us for your edification, and not for your destruction, I should not be ashamed.
2 Corinthians 10:9	But let it not be said that I am scaring you by means of epistles.
2 Corinthians 10:10	For they say: “His epistles, indeed, are weighty and strong. But his bodily presence is weak, and his speech is contemptible.”
2 Corinthians 10:11	Let someone like this realize that whatever we are in word through epistles, while absent: we are much the same in deed, while present.
2 Corinthians 10:12	For we would not dare to interpose or compare ourselves with certain ones who commend themselves. But we measure ourselves by ourselves, and we compare ourselves with ourselves.
2 Corinthians 10:13	Thus, we will not glory beyond our measure, but rather according to the measure of the limit which God has measured out to us, a measure which extends even to you.
2 Corinthians 10:14	For we are not overextending ourselves, as if we are not able to reach as far as you are able. For we have gone even as far as you have in the Gospel of Christ.
2 Corinthians 10:15	We are not glorying immeasurably over the labors of others. Instead, we hold on to the hope of your growing faith, so as to be magnified in you, according to our own limits, but in abundance,
2 Corinthians 10:16	and even so as to evangelize in those places that are beyond you, not in order to glory in the measure of others, but rather in those things which have already been prepared.
2 Corinthians 10:17	But whoever glories, let him glory in the Lord.
2 Corinthians 10:18	For it is not he who commends himself who is approved, but rather he whom God commends.
2 Corinthians 11:1	I wish that you would endure a small amount of my foolishness, so as to bear with me.
2 Corinthians 11:2	For I am jealous toward you, with the jealousy of God. And I have espoused you to one husband, offering you as a chaste virgin to Christ.
2 Corinthians 11:3	But I am afraid lest, as the serpent led astray Eve by his cleverness, so your minds might be corrupted and might fall away from the simplicity which is in Christ.
2 Corinthians 11:4	For if anyone arrives preaching another Christ, one whom we have not preached; or if you receive another Spirit, one whom you have not received; or another Gospel, one which you have not been given: you might permit him to guide you.
2 Corinthians 11:5	For I consider that I have done nothing less than the great Apostles.
2 Corinthians 11:6	For although I may be unskilled in speech, yet I am not so in knowledge. But, in all things, we have been made manifest to you.
2 Corinthians 11:7	Or did I commit a sin by humbling myself so that you would be exalted? For I preached the Gospel of God to you freely.
2 Corinthians 11:8	I have taken from other churches, receiving a stipend from them to the benefit of your ministry.
2 Corinthians 11:9	And when I was with you and in need, I was burdensome to no one. For the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied whatever was lacking to me. And in all things, I have kept myself, and I will keep myself, from being burdensome to you.
2 Corinthians 11:10	The truth of Christ is in me, and so this glorying shall not be broken away from me in the regions of Achaia.
2 Corinthians 11:11	Why so? Is it because I do not love you? God knows I do.
2 Corinthians 11:12	But what I am doing, I will continue to do, so that I may take away an opportunity from those who desire an opportunity by which they may glory, so as to be considered to be like us.
2 Corinthians 11:13	For false apostles, such as these deceitful workers, are presenting themselves as if they were Apostles of Christ.
2 Corinthians 11:14	And no wonder, for even Satan presents himself as if he were an Angel of light.
2 Corinthians 11:15	Therefore, it is no great thing if his ministers present themselves as if they were ministers of justice, for their end shall be according to their works.
2 Corinthians 11:16	I say again. And let no one consider me to be foolish. Or, at least, accept me as if I were foolish, so that I also may glory a small amount.
2 Corinthians 11:17	What I am saying is not said according to God, but as if in foolishness, in this matter of glorying.
2 Corinthians 11:18	Since so many glory according to the flesh, I will glory also.
2 Corinthians 11:19	For you freely accept the foolish, though you yourselves claim to be wise.
2 Corinthians 11:20	For you permit it when someone guides you into servitude, even if he devours you, even if he takes from you, even if he is extolled, even if he strikes you repeatedly on the face.
2 Corinthians 11:21	I speak according to disgrace, as if we had been weak in this regard. In this matter, (I speak in foolishness) if anyone dares, I dare also.
2 Corinthians 11:22	They are Hebrews; so am I. They are Israelites; so am I. They are the offspring of Abraham; so am I.
2 Corinthians 11:23	They are the ministers of Christ (I speak as if I were less wise); more so am I: with many more labors, with numerous imprisonments, with wounds beyond measure, with frequent mortifications.
2 Corinthians 11:24	On five occasions, I received forty stripes, less one, from the Jews.
2 Corinthians 11:25	Three times, I was beaten with rods. One time, I was stoned. Three times, I was shipwrecked. For a night and a day, I was in the depths of the sea.
2 Corinthians 11:26	I have made frequent journeys, through dangerous waters, in danger of robbers, in danger from my own nation, in danger from the Gentiles, in danger in the city, in danger in the wilderness, in danger in the sea, in danger from false brothers,
2 Corinthians 11:27	with hardships and difficulties, with much vigilance, in hunger and thirst, with frequent fasts, in cold and nakedness,
2 Corinthians 11:28	and, in addition to these things, which are external: there is my daily earnestness and solicitude for all the churches.
2 Corinthians 11:29	Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is scandalized, and I am not being burned?
2 Corinthians 11:30	If it is necessary to glory, I will glory of the things that concern my weaknesses.
2 Corinthians 11:31	The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying.
2 Corinthians 11:32	At Damascus, the governor of the nation under Aretas the king, watched over the city of the Damascenes, so as to apprehend me.
2 Corinthians 11:33	And, through a window, I was let down along the wall in a basket; and so I escaped his hands.
2 Corinthians 12:1	If it is necessary (though certainly not expedient) to glory, then I will next tell of visions and revelations from the Lord.
2 Corinthians 12:2	I know a man in Christ, who, more than fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I do not know, or out of the body, I do not know: God knows), was enraptured to the third heaven.
2 Corinthians 12:3	And I know a certain man (whether in the body, or out of the body, I do not know: God knows),
2 Corinthians 12:4	who was enraptured into Paradise. And he heard words of mystery, which it is not permitted for man to speak.
2 Corinthians 12:5	On behalf of someone like this, I will glory. But on behalf of myself, I will not glory about anything, except my infirmities.
2 Corinthians 12:6	For even though I am willing to glory, I will not be foolish. But I will speak the truth. Yet I will do so sparingly, lest anyone may consider me to be anything more than what he sees in me, or anything more than what he hears from me.
2 Corinthians 12:7	And lest the greatness of the revelations should extol me, there was given to me a prodding in my flesh: an angel of Satan, who struck me repeatedly.
2 Corinthians 12:8	Because of this, three times I petitioned the Lord that it might be taken away from me.
2 Corinthians 12:9	And he said to me: “My grace is sufficient for you. For virtue is perfected in weakness.” And so, willingly shall I glory in my weaknesses, so that the virtue of Christ may live within me.
2 Corinthians 12:10	Because of this, I am pleased in my infirmity: in reproaches, in difficulties, in persecutions, in distresses, for the sake of Christ. For when I am weak, then I am powerful.
2 Corinthians 12:11	I have become foolish; you have compelled me. For I ought to have been commended by you. For I have been nothing less than those who claim to be above the measure of Apostles, even though I am nothing.
2 Corinthians 12:12	And the seal of my Apostleship has been set over you, with all patience, with signs and wonders and miracles.
2 Corinthians 12:13	For what is there that you have had which is less than the other churches, except that I myself did not burden you? Forgive me this injury.
2 Corinthians 12:14	Behold, this is the third time I have prepared to come to you, and yet I will not be a burden to you. For I am seeking not the things that are yours, but you yourselves. And neither should the children store up for the parents, but the parents for the children.
2 Corinthians 12:15	And so, very willingly, I will spend and exhaust myself for the sake of your souls, loving you more, while being loved less.
2 Corinthians 12:16	And so be it. I have not burdened you, but instead, being astute, I obtained you by guile.
2 Corinthians 12:17	And yet, did I defraud you by means of any of those whom I sent to you?
2 Corinthians 12:18	I asked for Titus, and I sent a brother with him. Did Titus defraud you? Did we not walk with the same spirit? Did we not walk in the same steps?
2 Corinthians 12:19	Have you ever thought that we should explain ourselves to you? We speak in the sight of God, in Christ. But all things, most beloved, are for your edification.
2 Corinthians 12:20	Yet I fear, lest perhaps, when I have arrived, I might not find you such as I would want, and I might be found by you, such as you would not want. For perhaps there may be among you: contention, envy, animosity, dissension, detraction, whispering, self-exaltation, and rebellion.
2 Corinthians 12:21	If so, then, when I have arrived, God may again humble me among you. And so, I mourn for the many who sinned beforehand, and did not repent, over the lust and fornication and homosexuality, which they have committed.
2 Corinthians 13:1	Behold, this is the third time that I am coming to you. By the mouth of two or three witnesses, every word shall stand.
2 Corinthians 13:2	I have preached when present, and I will preach now while absent, to those who sinned before, and to all the others, because, when I arrive again, I will not be lenient with you.
2 Corinthians 13:3	Do you seek evidence that it is Christ who speaks in me, who is not weak with you, but is powerful with you?
2 Corinthians 13:4	For although he was crucified in weakness, yet he lives by the power of God. And yes, we are weak in him. But we shall live with him by the power of God among you.
2 Corinthians 13:5	Test yourselves as to whether you are in the faith. Examine yourselves. Or do you yourselves not know whether Christ Jesus is in you? But perhaps you are reprobates.
2 Corinthians 13:6	But I hope you know that we ourselves are not reprobates.
2 Corinthians 13:7	Now we pray to God that you shall do nothing evil, not so that we may seem to be approved, but so that you may do what is good, even if we seem like reprobates.
2 Corinthians 13:8	For we cannot do anything against the truth, but only for the truth.
2 Corinthians 13:9	For we rejoice that we are weak, while you are strong. This is also what we pray for: your perfection.
2 Corinthians 13:10	Therefore, I write these things while absent, so that, when present, I may not have to act more harshly, according to the authority which the Lord has given to me, for edification and not for destruction.
2 Corinthians 13:11	As to the rest, brothers, rejoice, be perfect, be encouraged, have the same mind, have peace. And so the God of peace and love will be with you.
2 Corinthians 13:12	Greet one another with a holy kiss.
2 Corinthians 13:13	All the saints greet you.
2 Corinthians 13:14	The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the charity of God, and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen.
