In the days of one of the judges, when the judges ruled, there was a famine in the land. And a man from Bethlehem in Judah departed to sojourn in the region of the Moabites with his wife and two children.
He called himself Elimelech, and his wife Naomi, and his two sons, the one Mahlon, and the other Chilion, Ephrathites from Bethlehem in Judah. And entering into the region of the Moabites, they stayed there.
And Elimelech the husband of Naomi died; and she remained with her sons.
They took wives from among the Moabites, of whom one was called Orpah, and the other Ruth. And they lived there ten years.
And they both died, namely Mahlon and Chilion, and the woman was left alone, bereaved of her two children and her husband.
And she arose so that she might journey to her native land, with both her daughters-in-law, from the region of the Moabites. For she had heard that the Lord had provided for his people and had given them food.
And so she departed from the place of her sojourn, with both her daughters-in-law, and having set out upon the way, she was about to return to the land of Judah.
She said to them, “Go to the home of your mother. May the Lord deal mercifully with you, just as you have dealt with the dead and with me.
May he grant you to find rest in the houses of the husbands, whom you will obtain by lot.” And she kissed them. They lifted up their voice, and began to weep,
and to say, “We will journey with you to your people.”
But she answered them, “Return, my daughters. Why come with me? Do I have any more sons in my womb, so that you could hope for husbands from me?
Return, my daughters, go forth. For I am now exhausted by old age, and not fit for the bond of marriage. Even if I were to conceive on this night, and bear sons,
if you were willing to wait until they were grown and had completed the years of adolescence, you would be elderly before you could marry. Do not do so, I beg you, my daughters. For your difficulties weigh upon me greatly, and the hand of the Lord has been set against me.”
In response, they lifted up their voice and began to weep again. Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, and then turned back. Ruth clung to her mother-in-law.
Naomi said to her, “See, your kinswoman returns to her people, and to her gods. Hurry after her.”
She answered, “Do not be against me, as if I would abandon you and go away; for wherever you will go, I will go, and where you will stay, I also will stay with you. Your people are my people, and your God is my God.
Whichever land will receive you dying, in the same I will die, and there I will have the place of my burial. May God cause these things to happen to me, and add more also, if anything except death alone should separate you and I.”
Therefore, Naomi saw that Ruth, being firmly resolved in her soul, was determined to go with her, and that she was unwilling to be dissuaded, and that nothing further could convince her to return to her own.
And so they set out together, and they came to Bethlehem. When they had entered the city, the news quickly spread among them all. And the women said, “This is that Naomi.”
But she said to them, “Do not call me Naomi (that is, beautiful), but call me Mara (that is, bitter). For the Almighty has greatly filled me with bitterness.
I went out full and the Lord led me back empty. So then, why call me Naomi, whom the Lord has humbled and the Almighty has afflicted?”
Therefore, Naomi went with Ruth, the Moabite, her daughter-in-law, from the land of her sojourn, and returned to Bethlehem, at the time of the first reaping of the barley.
But there was a man related to Elimelech, a powerful man, and very wealthy, named Boaz.
And Ruth, the Moabite, said to her mother-in-law, “If you order, I will go into the field and gather the ears of grain which escape the reaping hand, wherever I will find favor with the father of a family, who will be compassionate to me.” She answered her, “Go, my daughter.”
And so she went and gathered the ears of grain after the completion of the reaping. But it happened that this field was owned by Boaz, who was of the kindred of Elimelech.
And behold, he came out of Bethlehem and said to the reapers, “The Lord be with you.” They answered him, “May the Lord bless you.”
And Boaz said to the young man who was in charge of the reapers, “Whose young woman is this?”
He answered him, “This is the Moabite woman, who came with Naomi, from the land of the Moabites,
and she asked to gather the remnants of the ears of grain, following the steps of the reapers, and from morning until now she has remained in the field, and, indeed, not for one moment has she returned home.”
And Boaz said to Ruth, “Listen to me, daughter. Do not go to gather in any other field, nor depart from this place, but join with my young women,
and follow where they reap. For I given orders to my young men, so that no one is to harass you. And so, whenever you are thirsty, go to the vessels, and drink from the waters that the young men also drink.”
She, falling on her face and paying homage on the ground, said to him: “How did this happen to me, that I should find favor before your eyes, and that you would condescend to accept me, a foreign woman?”
He answered her, “Everything has been reported to me, what things you have done for your mother-in-law after the death of your husband, and how you left your parents, and the land in which you were born, and came to a people you did not know before.
May the Lord repay you for your work, and may you receive a full reward from the Lord, the God of Israel, to whom you have come, and under whose wings you have taken refuge.”
She said, “I have found favor before your eyes, my lord, who has consoled me, and you have spoken to the heart of your handmaid, who is unlike one of your young women.”
And Boaz said to her, “When mealtime begins, come here, and eat bread, and dip your morsel in the vinegar.” And so she sat beside the reapers, and she piled up parched grain for herself, and she ate and was satisfied, and carried off the leftovers.
And then she arose from there, so as to gather the ears of grain, according to the custom. But Boaz commanded his servants, saying, “If she is even willing to reap with you, do not prevent her,
and purposely let fall some from your bundles, and allow them to remain, so that she may gather without blushing, and let no one rebuke her gathering.”
And so she gathered in the field until evening. And striking and threshing with a staff what she had gathered, she found about the measure of an ephah of barley, that is, three measures.
Carrying this, she returned into the city and showed it to her mother-in-law. Moreover, she offered it to her and even gave her the leftovers of her food, with which she had been satisfied.
And her mother-in-law said to her, “Where have you gathered today, and where have you found work? Blessed is he who took pity on you!” And she informed her with whom she had been working, and she said the man’s name, that he was called Boaz.
Naomi answered her, “May he be blessed by the Lord, because the same kindness which he provided for the living, he also kept for the dead.” And again she said: “This man is our near relative.”
And Ruth said, “He charged me with this also, that from now on I should join with his reapers until all the crop has been reaped.”
And her mother-in-law said to her, “It is better, my daughter, to go out reaping with his young women, lest in a stranger’s field someone may confront you.”
And so, she joined with the young women of Boaz, and from then on reaped with them, until the barley and the wheat were stored in the barns.
But afterwards, when she returned to her mother-in-law, Naomi said to her: “My daughter, I will seek rest for you, and I will provide so that it may be well with you.
This Boaz, whose young women you joined in the field, is our near relative, and this night he will winnow the threshing floor of barley.
Therefore, wash and anoint yourself, and put on your decorative garments, and go down to the threshing floor, but do not let the man see you, while he finishes eating and drinking.
But when he goes sleep, observe the place where he sleeps. And you will approach and lift up the covering, the part which covers near his feet, and lay yourself down, and sleep there; but he will tell you what you are obliged to do.”
She answered, “I will do everything as you have instructed.”
And she went down to the threshing floor, and she did everything that her mother-in-law had commanded her.
And when Boaz had finished eating and drinking, and he was merry, and he had gone to sleep by the pile of sheaves, she approached secretly, and, lifting the covering near his feet, she laid herself down.
And behold, when it was the middle of the night, the man became frightened and confused, and he saw a woman lying near his feet.
And he said to her, “Who are you?” And she answered, “I am Ruth, your handmaid. Spread your covering over your servant, for you are a near relative.”
And he said, “You are blessed by the Lord, daughter, and you have excelled beyond your earlier benevolence, because you have not followed young men, whether poor or rich.
Therefore, do not be afraid, but whatever you decide about me, I will accomplish for you. For all the people, who dwell within the gates of my city, know that you are a virtuous woman.
Neither do I deny myself to be a near relative, but there is another nearer than I.
Be at peace for this night. And when morning arrives, if he is willing to uphold the law of kinship for you, things will turn out well; but if he is not willing, then, I will take you, without any doubt, as the Lord lives. Sleep until morning.”
And so she slept by his feet until the night was ending. And she arose before men could inquire of one another. And Boaz said, “Be careful, lest someone know that you came here.”
And again he said, “Spread your mantle that covers you, and hold it with both hands.” As she extended it and held it, he measured six measures of barley and placed it upon her. Carrying it, she went into the city.
And she came to her mother-in-law, who said to her: “What have you been doing, daughter?” And she explained to her all that the man had accomplished for her.
And she said, “Behold, he gave me six measures of barley, for he said, ‘I am not willing to have you return empty to your mother-in-law.’ ”
And Naomi said, “Wait, daughter, until we see how things will turn out. For the man will not rest until he has accomplished what he said.”
Then Boaz went up to the gate, and he sat there. And when he had seen the kinsman passing by, whom he had previously discussed, he spoke to him, calling him by his name, “Pause for a little while, and sit down here.” He turned aside and sat down.
But Boaz, calling aside ten men among the elders of the city, said to them, “Sit down here.”
They settled down, and he spoke to the kinsman, “Naomi, who has returned from the region of the Moabites, is selling part of a field of our brother Elimelech.
I wanted you to hear this, and to tell you in front of everyone sitting here, including the eldest of my people. If you will take possession of it by the right of kinship, buy it and possess it. But if it displeases you, you should reveal this to me, so that I will know what I have to do. For there is no near kinsman besides you, who is before me, and I am after you.” But he answered, “I will buy the field.”
And Boaz said to him, “When buying the field, you are likewise obliged to accept the hand of the woman Ruth, the Moabite, who was the wife of the deceased, so that you may raise up the name of your near kinsman through his posterity.”
He answered, “I yield my right of kinship, for I am obliged not to cut off the posterity of my own family. You may make use of my privilege, which I freely declare I will forego.”
Yet it was the custom between kinsmen in this former time in Israel, that if at anytime one yielded his right to another, so as to confirm his permission, the man took off his shoe and gave it to his neighbor. This was a testimony of concession in Israel.
And so Boaz said to his kinsman, “Take off your shoe.” And immediately he released it from his foot.
And he said to the eldest and to all the people, “You are witnesses this day, that I have taken possession of all that belonged to Elimelech and Chilion and Mahlon, and was bequeathed to Naomi.
And Ruth, the Moabite, the wife of Mahlon, I have taken in marriage so as to raise up the name of the deceased in his posterity, so that his name will not be cut off from among his family and his brethren and his people. You, I say, are witnesses of this thing.”
All the people who were at the gate, along with the eldest, answered, “We are witnesses. May the Lord make this woman, who enters into your house, like Rachel, and Leah, who built up the house of Israel, so that she may be an example of virtue in Ephrathah, and so that her name may be honored in Bethlehem.
And may your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, of the offspring which the Lord will give to you from this young woman.”
And so Boaz took Ruth, and received her as his wife, and he went in to her, and the Lord granted to her to conceive and bear a son.
And the women said to Naomi, “Blessed be the Lord, who has not permitted your family to be without a successor, and may his name be called upon in Israel.
And now you may have someone to comfort your soul and to care for you in old age, for he is born of your daughter-in-law, who loves you, and this is much better for you, than if you had seven sons.”
And taking up the boy, Naomi placed him on her bosom, and she took on the duties of carrying him and nursing him.
And the women of the near future were congratulating her and saying, “There was a son born to Naomi. They called his name Obed. Here is the father of Jesse, the father of David.”
These are the generations of Perez: Perez conceived Hezron,
Hezron conceived Aram, Aram conceived Amminadab,
Amminadab conceived Nahshon, Nahshon conceived Salmon,
Salmon conceived Boaz, Boaz conceived Obed,
Obed conceived Jesse, Jesse conceived David.
1 Samuel 1:1	There was a certain man from Ramah of Zophim, on Mount Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite.
1 Samuel 1:2	And he had two wives: the name of one was Hannah, and the name of the second was Peninnah. And Peninnah had sons. But Hannah did not have children.
1 Samuel 1:3	And this man went up from his city, on the established days, so that he might adore and sacrifice to the Lord of hosts at Shiloh. Now the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests of the Lord, were in that place.
1 Samuel 1:4	Then the day arrived, and Elkanah immolated. And he gave portions to his wife Peninnah, and to all her sons and daughters.
1 Samuel 1:5	But to Hannah he gave one portion with sorrow. For he loved Hannah, but the Lord had closed her womb.
1 Samuel 1:6	And her rival afflicted her and vehemently distressed her, to a great extent, for she rebuked her that the Lord had closed her womb.
1 Samuel 1:7	And she did so every year, when the time returned for them to ascend to the temple of the Lord. And she provoked her in this way. And so, she wept and did not take food.
1 Samuel 1:8	Therefore, her husband Elkanah said to her: “Hannah, why are you weeping? And why do you not eat? And for what reason do you afflict your heart? Am I not better to you than ten sons?”
1 Samuel 1:9	And so, after she ate and drank at Shiloh, Hannah rose up. And Eli, the priest, was sitting on the seat before the door of the temple of the Lord.
1 Samuel 1:10	And since Hannah was bitter in soul, she prayed to the Lord, weeping greatly.
1 Samuel 1:11	And she made a vow, saying, “O Lord of hosts, if, in looking with favor, you will see the affliction of your servant and will remember me, and will not forget your handmaid, and if you will give to your servant a male child, then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and no razor shall pass over his head.”
1 Samuel 1:12	Then it happened that, while she multiplied prayers before the Lord, Eli observed her mouth.
1 Samuel 1:13	For Hannah was speaking in her heart, and only her lips moved, and her voice was barely heard. Therefore, Eli considered her to be drunk,
1 Samuel 1:14	and so he said to her: “How long will you be inebriated? You should take only a little wine, but instead you are drenched.”
1 Samuel 1:15	Responding, Hannah said: “By no means, my lord. For I am an exceedingly unhappy woman, and I drank neither wine, nor anything that can inebriate. Instead, I have poured out my soul in the sight of the Lord.
1 Samuel 1:16	You should not repute your handmaid as one of the daughters of Belial. For I have been speaking from the abundance of my sorrow and grief, even until now.”
1 Samuel 1:17	Then Eli said to her: “Go in peace. And may the God of Israel grant to you your petition, which you have begged of him.”
1 Samuel 1:18	And she said, “I wish that your handmaid may find grace in your eyes.” And the woman went on her way, and she ate, and her countenance was no longer changed for the worse.
1 Samuel 1:19	And they rose up in the morning, and they worshipped before the Lord. And they returned and arrived at their own house at Ramah. Then Elkanah knew his wife Hannah. And the Lord remembered her.
1 Samuel 1:20	And it happened that, in the course of days, Hannah conceived and bore a son. And she called his name Samuel, because she had requested him from the Lord.
1 Samuel 1:21	Now her husband Elkanah ascended with his entire house, so that he might immolate to the Lord a solemn sacrifice, with his vow.
1 Samuel 1:22	But Hannah did not go up. For she said to her husband, “I will not go, until the infant has been weaned, and until I may lead him, so that he may appear before the sight of the Lord, and may remain always there.”
1 Samuel 1:23	And her husband Elkanah said to her: “Do what seems good to you, and stay until you wean him. And I pray that the Lord may fulfill his word.” Therefore, the woman remained at home, and she breastfed her son, until she withdrew him from milk.
1 Samuel 1:24	And after she had weaned him, she brought him with her, along with three calves, and three measures of flour, and a small bottle of wine, and she led him to the house of the Lord at Shiloh. But the boy was still a young child.
1 Samuel 1:25	And they immolated a calf, and they presented the boy to Eli.
1 Samuel 1:26	And Hannah said: “I beg you, my lord, as your soul lives, my lord: I am that woman, who stood before you here, praying to the Lord.
1 Samuel 1:27	I prayed for this child, and the Lord granted to me my petition, which I asked of him.
1 Samuel 1:28	Because of this, I have also lent him to the Lord, for all the days when he shall be lent to the Lord.” And they adored the Lord in that place. And Hannah prayed, and she said:
1 Samuel 2:1	“My heart exults in the Lord, and my horn is exalted in my God. My mouth is enlarged over my enemies. For I have rejoiced in your salvation.
1 Samuel 2:2	Nothing is holy as the Lord is holy. For there is no other beside you. And nothing is strong as our God is strong.
1 Samuel 2:3	Do not continue speaking of great things, boasting. Let what is old depart from your mouth. For the Lord is the God of knowledge, and thoughts are prepared for him.
1 Samuel 2:4	The bow of the powerful has been overwhelmed, and the weak have been girded with strength.
1 Samuel 2:5	Those who before were filled, have hired themselves out for bread. And the starving have been filled, so that the barren have given birth to many. But she who had borne many sons has become unable.
1 Samuel 2:6	The Lord brings death, and he gives life. He leads away to death, and he brings back again.
1 Samuel 2:7	The Lord impoverishes, and he enriches. He humbles, and he lifts up.
1 Samuel 2:8	He raises up the indigent from the dust, and he lifts up the poor from filth, so that they may sit with princes, and take hold of a throne of glory. For the hinges of the earth belong to the Lord, and he has placed the globe upon them.
1 Samuel 2:9	He will preserve the feet of his holy ones, and the impious will be silenced in darkness. For no man will prevail by his own strength.
1 Samuel 2:10	The adversaries of the Lord will dread him. And over them, he will thunder in the heavens. The Lord will judge the parts of the earth, and he will give dominion to his king, and he will lift up the horn of his Christ.”
1 Samuel 2:11	And Elkanah went away to Ramah, to his house. But the boy was a minister in the sight of the Lord, before the face of Eli, the priest.
1 Samuel 2:12	But the sons of Eli were sons of Belial, not knowing the Lord,
1 Samuel 2:13	nor the priestly office for the people. And so, no matter who had immolated a victim, the servant of the priest would arrive, while the flesh was still cooking, and he would take a three-pronged hook in his hand,
1 Samuel 2:14	and put it into the vessel, or into the cauldron, or into the cooking pot, or into the pan, and all that the hook lifted up, the priest took for himself. So they did to all of Israel who arrived at Shiloh.
1 Samuel 2:15	In addition, before they burned the fat, the servant of the priest would arrive, and he would say to the one who was immolating: “Give me the flesh, so that I may boil it for the priest. For I will not accept cooked meat from you, but raw.”
1 Samuel 2:16	And the one who was immolating would say to him, “First, allow the fat to be burned today, according to custom, and then take for yourself whatever your soul desires.” But in response, he would say to him: “By no means. For you will give it to me now, otherwise I will take it by force.”
1 Samuel 2:17	Therefore, the sin of the servants was exceedingly great before the Lord. For they drew men away from the sacrifice of the Lord.
1 Samuel 2:18	But Samuel was ministering before the face of the Lord; he was a youth girded with a linen ephod.
1 Samuel 2:19	And his mother fashioned a little tunic for him, which she brought to him on the appointed days, ascending with her husband, so that he might immolate the solemn sacrifice.
1 Samuel 2:20	And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife. And he said to him, “May the Lord repay to you offspring from this woman, on behalf of the loan that you offered to the Lord.” And they went away to their own place.
1 Samuel 2:21	Then the Lord visited Hannah, and she conceived and bore three sons and two daughters. And the youth Samuel was magnified with the Lord.
1 Samuel 2:22	Now Eli was very old, and he heard all that his sons were doing to all of Israel, and how they were sleeping with the women who were waiting at the door of the tabernacle.
1 Samuel 2:23	And he said to them: “Why are you doing these kinds of things, very wicked things, that I have heard from all the people?
1 Samuel 2:24	My sons, do not be willing. For it is no good report that I am hearing, so that you would cause the people of the Lord to transgress.
1 Samuel 2:25	If a man has sinned against a man, God may be able to be appeased over him. But if a man has sinned against the Lord, who will pray for him?” But they did not listen to the voice of their father, that the Lord was willing to kill them.
1 Samuel 2:26	But the youth Samuel advanced, and grew up, and he was pleasing to the Lord, as well as to men.
1 Samuel 2:27	Then a man of God went to Eli, and he said to him: “Thus says the Lord: Was I not revealed openly to the house of your father, when they were in Egypt in the house of Pharaoh?
1 Samuel 2:28	And I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel for myself as priest, so that he might ascend to my altar, and burn incense to me, and wear the ephod before me. And I gave to the house of your father all the sacrifices of the sons of Israel.
1 Samuel 2:29	Why have you kicked away my victims and my gifts, which I instructed to be offered in the temple? And why have you given more honor to your sons than to me, so that you eat the first-fruits of every sacrifice of my people Israel?
1 Samuel 2:30	Because of this, the Lord God of Israel says: I have spoken clearly, so that your house, and the house of your father, may minister in my sight, even forever. But now the Lord says: May this be far from me. Instead, whoever will have glorified me, I will glorify him. But whoever despises me, they will be despised.
1 Samuel 2:31	Behold the days are arriving, when I will cut off your arm, and the arm of the house of your father, so that there will not be an old man in your house.
1 Samuel 2:32	And you will see your rival in the temple, amid all the prosperity of Israel. And there will not be an old man in your house for all days.
1 Samuel 2:33	Yet truly, I will not entirely take away a man of you from my altar, but such that your eyes may fail, and your soul may melt away, and a great part of your house may die out, as it pertains to the state of men.
1 Samuel 2:34	But this will be a sign to you, which will happen to your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas: on one day they both will die.
1 Samuel 2:35	And I will raise up for myself a faithful priest, who will act in accord with my heart and my soul. And I will build a faithful house for him. And he will walk before my Christ for all days.
1 Samuel 2:36	Then this will be in the future, that whoever will have remained of your house, he will approach so that he may pray on his behalf. And he will offer a coin of silver, and a twist of bread. And he will say: ‘Permit me, I beg you, one part of the priestly office, so that I may eat a mouthful of bread.’ ”
1 Samuel 3:1	Now the boy Samuel was ministering to the Lord before Eli, and the word of the Lord was precious in those days; there was no manifest vision.
1 Samuel 3:2	Then it happened that, on a certain day, Eli was lying in his place. And his eyes had dimmed, so that he was unable to see.
1 Samuel 3:3	And so, to prevent the lamp of God from going out, Samuel was sleeping in the temple of the Lord, where the ark of God was.
1 Samuel 3:4	And the Lord called Samuel. And responding, he said, “Here I am.”
1 Samuel 3:5	And he ran to Eli, and he said, “Here I am. For you called me.” And he said: “I did not call. Return and sleep.” And he went away, and he slept.
1 Samuel 3:6	And again, the Lord continued to call to Samuel. And rising up, Samuel went to Eli, and he said: “Here I am. For you called me.” And he responded: “I did not call you, my son. Return and sleep.”
1 Samuel 3:7	Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, and the word of the Lord had not been revealed to him.
1 Samuel 3:8	And the Lord continued, and he called to Samuel still a third time. And rising up, he went to Eli.
1 Samuel 3:9	And he said: “Here I am. For you called me.” Then Eli understood that the Lord had called the boy. And he said to Samuel: “Go and sleep. And if he calls to you from now on, you will say, ‘Speak, Lord, for your servant is listening.’ ” Therefore, Samuel went away, and he slept in his place.
1 Samuel 3:10	And the Lord came, and stood, and he called, just as he had called the other times, “Samuel, Samuel.” And Samuel said, “Speak, Lord, for your servant is listening.”
1 Samuel 3:11	And the Lord said to Samuel: “Behold, I am accomplishing a word in Israel. Whoever will hear about it, both his ears will ring.
1 Samuel 3:12	In that day, I will raise up against Eli all the things that I have spoken over his house. I will begin, and I will finish.
1 Samuel 3:13	For I have foretold to him that I will judge his house unto eternity, because of iniquity. For he had known that his sons acted shamefully, and he did not chastise them.
1 Samuel 3:14	For this reason, I have sworn to the house of Eli that the iniquity of his house will not be expiated, with victims or with gifts, even forever.”
1 Samuel 3:15	Then Samuel slept until morning, and he opened the doors of the house of the Lord. And Samuel was afraid to tell the vision to Eli.
1 Samuel 3:16	Then Eli called Samuel, and he said, “Samuel, my son?” And responding, he said, “I am here.”
1 Samuel 3:17	And he questioned him: “What is the word that the Lord has spoken to you? I beg you that you may not conceal it from me. May God do these things to you, and may he add these other things, if you hide from me one word out of all the things that were told to you.”
1 Samuel 3:18	And so, Samuel revealed to him all the words, and he did not hide them from him. And he responded: “He is the Lord. May he do what is good in his own eyes.”
1 Samuel 3:19	And Samuel grew up, and the Lord was with him, and not one of his words fell to the ground.
1 Samuel 3:20	And all of Israel, from Dan even to Beersheba, knew Samuel to be a faithful prophet of the Lord.
1 Samuel 3:21	And the Lord continued to appear in Shiloh. For the Lord had revealed himself to Samuel at Shiloh, according to the word of the Lord. And the word about Samuel went forth to all of Israel.
1 Samuel 4:1	And it happened that, in those days, the Philistines assembled to fight. And Israel went out to meet the Philistines in battle, and he made camp beside the Stone of Assistance. But the Philistines went to Aphek,
1 Samuel 4:2	and they positioned their troops against Israel. Then, when the conflict began, Israel turned his back to the Philistines. And they were cut down in that conflict, in various places in the fields, about four thousand men.
1 Samuel 4:3	And the people returned to the camp. And those greater by birth of Israel said: “Why has the Lord struck us today before the Philistines? Let us bring to ourselves the ark of the covenant of the Lord from Shiloh. And let it enter into our midst, so that it may save us from the hand of our enemies.”
1 Samuel 4:4	Therefore, the people sent to Shiloh, and they brought from there the ark of the covenant of the Lord of hosts, sitting upon the cherubim. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were with the ark of the covenant of God.
1 Samuel 4:5	And when the ark of the covenant of the Lord had arrived in the camp, all of Israel shouted with a great clamor, and the land resounded.
1 Samuel 4:6	And the Philistines heard the voice of the clamor, and they said, “What is this voice of a great clamor in the camp of the Hebrews?” And they realized that the ark of the Lord had arrived in the camp.
1 Samuel 4:7	And the Philistines were afraid, saying, “God has entered into the camp.” And they groaned, saying:
1 Samuel 4:8	“Woe to us! For there was no such great exultation yesterday, or the day before. Woe to us! Who will save us from the hand of these sublime gods? These are the gods who struck Egypt with all the plagues, in the desert.”
1 Samuel 4:9	“Be strengthened, and be manly, O Philistines! Otherwise, you may serve the Hebrews, as they also have served you. Be strengthened and wage war!”
1 Samuel 4:10	Therefore, the Philistines fought, and Israel was cut down, and each one fled to his own tent. And an exceedingly great slaughter occurred. And thirty thousand foot soldiers from Israel fell.
1 Samuel 4:11	And the ark of God was captured. Also, the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, died.
1 Samuel 4:12	Now a man of Benjamin, rushing from the troops, arrived at Shiloh on the same day, with his clothing torn, and with his head sprinkled with dust.
1 Samuel 4:13	And when he had arrived, Eli was sitting on a seat opposite the way, gazing out. For his heart was fearful on behalf of the ark of God. Then, after this man entered the city, he announced it to the city. And the entire city wailed.
1 Samuel 4:14	And Eli heard the sound of the outcry, and he said, “What is this sound, this tumult?” And the man hurried, and he went and announced it to Eli.
1 Samuel 4:15	Now Eli was ninety-eight years old, and his eyes had dimmed, so that he was not able to see.
1 Samuel 4:16	And he said to Eli: “I am the one who came from the battle. And it is I who fled from the troops today.” And he said to him, “What has happened, my son?”
1 Samuel 4:17	And responding, the man reported and said: “Israel has fled before the Philistines. And a great ruin has happened to the people. Moreover, your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, also have died. And the ark of God has been captured.”
1 Samuel 4:18	And when he had named the ark of God, he fell from the seat backwards, toward the door, and, having broken his neck, he died. For he was an old man of great age. And he judged Israel for forty years.
1 Samuel 4:19	Now his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was pregnant, and her delivery was near. And upon hearing the news that the ark of God had been captured, and that her father-in-law and her husband had died, she bent down and went into labor. For her pains rushed upon her suddenly.
1 Samuel 4:20	Then, when she was near death, those who were standing around her said to her, “You should not be afraid, for you have given birth to a son.” But she did not respond to them, and she did not notice them.
1 Samuel 4:21	And she called the boy Ichabod, saying, “The glory of Israel has been taken away,” because the ark of God was captured, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
1 Samuel 4:22	And she said, “The glory has been taken away from Israel,” because the ark of God had been captured.
1 Samuel 5:1	Then the Philistines took the ark of God, and they transported it from the Stone of Assistance into Ashdod.
1 Samuel 5:2	And the Philistines took the ark of God, and carried it into the temple of Dagon. And they stationed it beside Dagon.
1 Samuel 5:3	And when the Ashdodites had risen up at first light on the next day, behold, Dagon was lying prone on the ground before the ark of the Lord. And they took Dagon, and they set him again in his place.
1 Samuel 5:4	And again, on the next day, rising up in the morning, they found Dagon lying on his face upon the ground, before the ark of the Lord. But the head of Dagon, and both palms of his hands had been cut off upon the threshold.
1 Samuel 5:5	Moreover, only the trunk of Dagon remained in its place. For this reason, the priests of Dagon, and all who enter his temple, do not tread upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, even to this day.
1 Samuel 5:6	Now the hand of the Lord weighed heavily upon the Ashdodites, and he destroyed them. And he struck Ashdod and its borders at the inner part of the buttocks. And in the villages and fields, in the midst of that region, mice rose up and burst forth. And this caused a great tumult unto death in the city.
1 Samuel 5:7	Then the men of Ashdod, seeing this kind of plague, said: “The ark of the God of Israel shall not remain with us. For his hand is harsh, over us and over Dagon, our god.”
1 Samuel 5:8	And sending, they gathered together all the princes of the Philistines to them, and they said, “What shall we do about the ark of the God of Israel?” And the Gathites responded, “Let the ark of the God of Israel be led around.” And they led the ark of the God of Israel around.
1 Samuel 5:9	And as they were carrying it around, the hand of the Lord fell upon every single city with an exceedingly great slaughter. And he struck down the men of each and every city, from the small even to the great. And cysts were festering at their buttocks. And the Gathites took counsel, and they made for themselves seat covers from pelts.
1 Samuel 5:10	Therefore, they sent the ark of God into Ekron. And when the ark of God had arrived at Ekron, the Ekronites cried out, saying, “They have brought the ark of the God of Israel to us, so that it may kill us and our people!”
1 Samuel 5:11	And so they sent and gathered together all the princes of the Philistines, and they said: “Release the ark of the God of Israel, and return it to its own place. And let it not kill us, with our people.”
1 Samuel 5:12	For the fear of death fell upon every single city, and the hand of God was very heavy. Also, the men who did not die were being afflicted in the inner part of the buttocks. And the wailing of each city was ascending to heaven.
1 Samuel 6:1	Now the ark of the Lord was in the region of the Philistines for seven months.
1 Samuel 6:2	And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying: “What shall we do with the ark of the Lord? Reveal to us in what manner we should send it back to its place.” And they said:
1 Samuel 6:3	“If you send back the ark of the God of Israel, do not choose to release it empty. Instead, repay to him what you owe because of sin. And then you will be cured. And you will know why his hand did not withdraw from you.”
1 Samuel 6:4	And they said, “What is it that we ought to repay to him because of transgression?” And they responded:
1 Samuel 6:5	“In accord with the number of the provinces of the Philistines, you shall fashion five gold cysts and five gold mice. For the same plague has been upon all of you and your princes. And you shall fashion a likeness of your cysts and a likeness of the mice, which have destroyed the land. And so shall you give glory to the God of Israel, so that perhaps he may lift off his hand from you, and from your gods, and from your land.
1 Samuel 6:6	Why have you hardened your hearts, just as Egypt and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? After he was struck, did he not then release them, and they went away?
1 Samuel 6:7	Now therefore, fashion and take a new cart, with two cows that have given birth, but on which no yoke has been imposed. And yoke them to the cart, but retain their calves at home.
1 Samuel 6:8	And you shall take the ark of the Lord, and you shall place it upon the cart, with the articles of gold that you have paid to him on behalf of transgression. You shall place these in a little box at its side. And release it, so that it may go.
1 Samuel 6:9	And you shall watch. And if, indeed, it ascends by the way of his own parts, toward Beth-shemesh, then he has done this great evil to us. But if not, then we shall know that it is by no means his hand that has touched us, but instead it happened by chance.”
1 Samuel 6:10	Therefore, they did it in this way. And taking two cows that were feeding calves, they yoked them to the cart, and they enclosed their calves at home.
1 Samuel 6:11	And they placed the ark of God upon the cart, with the little box that held the gold mice and the likenesses of the cysts.
1 Samuel 6:12	But the cows went directly along the way that leads to Beth-shemesh. And they advanced only in one direction, lowing as they went. And they did not turn aside, neither to the right, nor to the left. Moreover, the princes of the Philistines followed them, as far as the borders of Beth-shemesh.
1 Samuel 6:13	Now the Beth-shemeshites were harvesting wheat in the valley. And lifting up their eyes, they saw the ark, and they were glad when they had seen it.
1 Samuel 6:14	And the cart went into the field of Joshua, a Beth-shemeshite, and it stood still there. Now in that place was a great stone, and so they cut up the wood of the cart, and they placed the cows upon it as a holocaust to the Lord.
1 Samuel 6:15	But the Levites took down the ark of God, and the little box that was at its side, in which were the articles of gold, and they placed them upon the great stone. Then the men of Beth-shemesh offered holocausts and immolated victims, on that day, to the Lord.
1 Samuel 6:16	And the five princes of the Philistines saw, and they returned to Ekron on the same day.
1 Samuel 6:17	Now these are the gold cysts, which the Philistines repaid to the Lord for transgression: for Ashdod one, for Gaza one, for Ashkelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one.
1 Samuel 6:18	And there were gold mice, according to the number of the cities of the Philistines, of the five provinces, from the fortified city to the village that was without a wall, and even to the great stone upon which they placed the ark of the Lord, which was, at last in that day, in the field of Joshua, the Beth-shemeshite.
1 Samuel 6:19	Then he struck down some of the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had seen the ark of the Lord. And he struck down some of the people: seventy men, and fifty thousand of the common people. And the people lamented, because the Lord had struck the people with a great slaughter.
1 Samuel 6:20	And the men of Beth-shemesh said: “Who will be able to stand in the sight of the Lord, this holy God? And who will ascend to him from us?”
1 Samuel 6:21	And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying: “The Philistines have returned the ark of the Lord. Descend and lead it back to you.”
1 Samuel 7:1	Then the men of Kiriath-jearim arrived, and they led away the ark of the Lord. And they brought it into the house of Abinadab, in Gibeah. Then they sanctified Eleazar, his son, so that he might care for the ark of the Lord.
1 Samuel 7:2	And it happened that, from that day, the ark of the Lord remained in Kiriath-jearim. And the days were multiplied (for it was now the twentieth year) and all the house of Israel rested, following the Lord.
1 Samuel 7:3	Then Samuel spoke to the entire house of Israel, saying: “If you would return to the Lord with your whole heart, take away strange gods from among you, the Baals and Ashtaroth, and prepare your hearts for the Lord, and serve him alone. And he will rescue you from the hand of the Philistines.”
1 Samuel 7:4	Therefore, the sons of Israel took away the Baals and Ashtaroth, and they served the Lord alone.
1 Samuel 7:5	And Samuel said, “Gather all of Israel at Mizpah, so that I may pray for you to the Lord.”
1 Samuel 7:6	And they convened at Mizpah. And they drew water, and they poured it out in the sight of the Lord. And on that day they fasted, and in that place they said, “We have sinned against the Lord.” And Samuel judged the sons of Israel at Mizpah.
1 Samuel 7:7	And the Philistines heard that the sons of Israel had gathered together at Mizpah. And the princes of the Philistines ascended against Israel. And when the sons of Israel had heard this, they were afraid before the face of the Philistines.
1 Samuel 7:8	And they said to Samuel, “May you not cease to cry out to the Lord our God on our behalf, so that he may save us from the hand of the Philistines.”
1 Samuel 7:9	Then Samuel took one suckling lamb, and he offered it whole, as a holocaust to the Lord. And Samuel cried out to the Lord on behalf of Israel, and the Lord heeded him.
1 Samuel 7:10	Then it happened that, while Samuel was offering the holocaust, the Philistines began the battle against Israel. But the Lord thundered with a great crash, on that day, over the Philistines, and he terrified them, and they were cut down before the face of Israel.
1 Samuel 7:11	And the men of Israel, departing from Mizpah, pursued the Philistines, and they struck them down as far as the place which was below Bethcar.
1 Samuel 7:12	Then Samuel took a single stone, and he placed it between Mizpah and Shen. And he called the name of this place: The Stone of Assistance. And he said, “For in this place the Lord gave assistance to us.”
1 Samuel 7:13	And the Philistines were humbled, and they no longer drew near, so that they might enter into the borders of Israel. And so, the hand of the Lord was over the Philistines during all the days of Samuel.
1 Samuel 7:14	And the cities that the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron as far as Gath, with their borders. And he freed Israel from the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
1 Samuel 7:15	And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
1 Samuel 7:16	And he went each year, traveling around to Bethel, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah, and he judged Israel in the above-stated places.
1 Samuel 7:17	And he returned to Ramah. For his house was there, and he judged Israel there. And then he built an altar to the Lord there.
1 Samuel 8:1	And it happened that, when Samuel had become old, he appointed his sons as judges over Israel.
1 Samuel 8:2	Now the name of his firstborn son was Joel, and the name of the second was Abijah: judges at Beersheba.
1 Samuel 8:3	But his sons did not walk in his ways. Instead, they turned aside, pursuing avarice. And they accepted bribes, and they perverted judgment.
1 Samuel 8:4	Therefore, all those greater by birth of Israel, having gathered together, went to Samuel at Ramah.
1 Samuel 8:5	And they said to him: “Behold, you are elderly, and your sons do not walk in your ways. Appoint for us a king, so that he may judge us, just as all the nations have.”
1 Samuel 8:6	And the word was displeasing in the eyes of Samuel, for they had said, “Give us a king to judge us.” And Samuel prayed to the Lord.
1 Samuel 8:7	Then the Lord said to Samuel: “Listen to the voice of the people in all that they are saying to you. For they have not rejected you, but me, lest I reign over them.
1 Samuel 8:8	In accord with all their works, which they have done from the day when I led them away from Egypt, even to this day: just as they have forsaken me, and served foreign gods, so now they also do to you.
1 Samuel 8:9	Now therefore, hear their voice. Yet truly, testify to them and foretell to them the rights of the king who will reign over them.”
1 Samuel 8:10	And so, Samuel told all the words of the Lord to the people, who had petitioned a king from him.
1 Samuel 8:11	And he said: “This will be the right of the king who will have authority over you: He will take your sons, and place them in his chariots. And he will make them his horsemen and his runners before his four-horse chariots.
1 Samuel 8:12	And he will appoint them to be his tribunes and centurions, and the plowmen of his fields, and the harvesters of the grain, and the makers of his weapons and chariots.
1 Samuel 8:13	Likewise, your daughters he will take for himself as makers of ointments, and as cooks and bakers.
1 Samuel 8:14	Also, he will take your fields, and your vineyards, and your best olive groves, and he will give them to his servants.
1 Samuel 8:15	Moreover, he will take one tenth of your grain and of the results of your vineyards, so that he may give these to his eunuchs and servants.
1 Samuel 8:16	Then, too, he will take your servants, and handmaids, and your best young men, and your donkeys, and he will set them to his work.
1 Samuel 8:17	Also, he will take a tenth of your flocks. And you will be his servants.
1 Samuel 8:18	And you will cry out, in that day, from the face of the king, whom you have chosen for yourselves. And the Lord will not heed you, in that day. For you requested a king for yourselves.”
1 Samuel 8:19	But the people were not willing to listen to the voice of Samuel. Instead, they said: “By no means! For there shall be a king over us,
1 Samuel 8:20	and we shall be just like all the Gentiles. And our king will judge us, and he will go out before us, and he will fight our wars for us.”
1 Samuel 8:21	And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he spoke them to the ears of the Lord.
1 Samuel 8:22	Then the Lord said to Samuel, “Listen to their voice, and appoint a king over them.” And Samuel said to the men of Israel, “Let each one go to his own city.”
1 Samuel 9:1	Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a man of Benjamin, strong and robust.
1 Samuel 9:2	And he had a son called Saul, an elect and good man. And there was not a man among the sons of Israel better than he was. For he stood head and shoulders above all the people.
1 Samuel 9:3	Now the donkeys of Kish, the father of Saul, had become lost. And Kish said to his son Saul, “Take with you one of the servants, and rising up, go out and seek the donkeys.” And when they had passed through mount Ephraim,
1 Samuel 9:4	and through the land of Shalishah, and had not found them, they crossed also through the land of Shaalim, and they were not there, and through the land of Benjamin, and they found nothing.
1 Samuel 9:5	And when they had arrived in the land of Zuph, Saul said to the servant who was with him, “Come, and let us return, otherwise perhaps my father may forget the donkeys, and become anxious over us.”
1 Samuel 9:6	And he said to him: “Behold, there is a man of God in this city, a noble man. All that he says, happens without fail. Now therefore, let us go there. For perhaps he may tell us about our way, because of which we have arrived.”
1 Samuel 9:7	And Saul said to his servant: “Behold, let us go. But what will we bring to the man of God? The bread in our sacks has run out. And we have no small gift that we might give to the man of God, nor anything at all.”
1 Samuel 9:8	The servant again responded to Saul, and he said: “Behold, there is found in my hand a coin of the fourth part of a stater. Let us give it to the man of God, so that he may reveal to us our way.”
1 Samuel 9:9	(In past times, in Israel, anyone going to consult God would speak in this way, “Come, and let us go to the seer.” For one who is called a prophet today, in past times was called a seer.)
1 Samuel 9:10	And Saul said to his servant: “Your word is very good. Come, let us go.” And they went into the city, where the man of God was.
1 Samuel 9:11	And as they were ascending the slope to the city, they found some young women going out to draw water. And they said to them, “Is the seer here?”
1 Samuel 9:12	And responding, they said to them: “He is. Behold, he is ahead of you. Hurry now. For he came into the city today, since there is a sacrifice for the people today, on the high place.
1 Samuel 9:13	Upon entering the city, you should find him immediately, before he ascends to the high place for the meal. And the people will not eat until he has arrived. For he blesses the victim, and thereafter those who were called will eat. Now therefore, go up. For you will find him today.”
1 Samuel 9:14	And they ascended into the city. And as they were walking in the midst of the city, Samuel appeared, advancing to meet them, so that he might ascend to the high place.
1 Samuel 9:15	Now the Lord had revealed to the ear of Samuel, one day before Saul had arrived, saying:
1 Samuel 9:16	“Tomorrow, at the same hour that it is now, I will send to you a man from the land of Benjamin. And you shall anoint him to be the leader over my people Israel. And he will save my people from the hand of the Philistines. For I have looked with favor upon my people, because their outcry has reached me.”
1 Samuel 9:17	And when Samuel had caught sight of Saul, the Lord said to him: “Behold, the man about whom I spoke to you. This one shall rule over my people.”
1 Samuel 9:18	Then Saul drew near to Samuel, at the middle of the gate, and he said, “Tell me, I beg you: where is the house of the seer?”
1 Samuel 9:19	And Samuel responded to Saul, saying: “I am the seer. Ascend before me to the high place, so that you may eat with me today. And I will send you away in the morning. And I shall reveal to you everything that is in your heart.
1 Samuel 9:20	And concerning the donkeys, which were lost the day before yesterday, you should not be anxious, for they have been found. And all the best things of Israel, for whom should they be? Will they not be for you and for all your father’s house?”
1 Samuel 9:21	And responding, Saul said: “Am I not a son of Benjamin, the least tribe of Israel, and are not my kindred the last among all the families from the tribe of Benjamin? So then, why would you speak this word to me?”
1 Samuel 9:22	And so Samuel, taking Saul and his servant, brought them into the dining room, and he gave them a place at the head of those who had been invited. For there were about thirty men.
1 Samuel 9:23	And Samuel said to the cook, “Present the portion that I gave to you, and which I instructed you to set apart beside you.”
1 Samuel 9:24	Then the cook lifted up the shoulder, and he placed it before Saul. And Samuel said: “Behold, what remains, set it before you and eat. For it was preserved for you intentionally, when I called the people.” And Saul ate with Samuel on that day.
1 Samuel 9:25	And they descended from the high place into the town, and he spoke with Saul in the upper room. And he set out a bed for Saul in the upper room, and he slept.
1 Samuel 9:26	And when they had risen in the morning, and it now began to be light, Samuel called to Saul in the upper room, saying, “Rise up, so that I may send you on.” And Saul rose up. And they both departed, that is to say, he and Samuel.
1 Samuel 9:27	And as they were descending to the very limit of the city, Samuel said to Saul: “Tell the servant to go ahead of us, and to continue on. But as for you, stay here a little while, so that I may reveal the word of the Lord to you.”
1 Samuel 10:1	Then Samuel took a little vial of oil, and poured it on his head. And he kissed him, and said: “Behold, the Lord has anointed you as first ruler over his inheritance. And you shall free his people from the hands of their enemies, who are all around them. And this shall be a sign for you that God has anointed you as ruler:
1 Samuel 10:2	When you will have departed from me this day, you will find two men beside the sepulcher of Rachel, in the parts of Benjamin to the south. And they will say to you: ‘The donkeys have been found, which you had been seeking as you traveled. And your father, forgetting about the donkeys, has been anxious for you, and he says, “What shall I do about my son?” ’
1 Samuel 10:3	And when you will have departed from there, and will have traveled farther, and will have arrived at the oak of Tabor, in that place three men, who are going up to God at Bethel, will find you. One will be bringing three young goats, and another three loaves of bread, and another will be carrying a bottle of wine.
1 Samuel 10:4	And when they will have greeted you, they will give you two loaves. And you shall accept these from their hand.
1 Samuel 10:5	After these things, you shall arrive at the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is. And when you will have entered the city there, you will meet a company of prophets, descending from the high place, with a psaltery, and a timbrel, and a pipe, and a harp before them, and they will be prophesying.
1 Samuel 10:6	And the Spirit of the Lord will spring up within you. And you shall prophesy with them, and you shall be changed into another man.
1 Samuel 10:7	Therefore, when these signs will have happened to you, do whatever your hand will find, for the Lord is with you.
1 Samuel 10:8	And you shall descend before me into Gilgal, (for I will descend to you), so that you may offer an oblation, and may immolate victims of peace. For seven days, you shall wait, until I come to you, and reveal to you what you should do.”
1 Samuel 10:9	And so, when he had turned his shoulder, so that he might go away from Samuel, God changed him to another heart. And all these signs occurred on that day.
1 Samuel 10:10	And they arrived at the above-stated hill, and behold, a group of prophets met him. And the Spirit of the Lord leapt up within him, and he prophesied in their midst.
1 Samuel 10:11	Then all those who had known him yesterday and the day before, seeing that he was with the prophets, and that he was prophesying, said to one other: “What is this thing that has happened to the son of Kish? Could Saul also be among the prophets?”
1 Samuel 10:12	And one would respond to the other, saying, “And who is their father?” Because of this, it turned into a proverb, “Could Saul also be among the prophets?”
1 Samuel 10:13	Then he ceased to prophesy, and he went to the high place.
1 Samuel 10:14	And the uncle of Saul said to him, and to his servant, “Where did you go?” And they responded: “To seek the donkeys. But when we did not find them, we went to Samuel.”
1 Samuel 10:15	And his uncle said to him, “Tell me what Samuel said to you.”
1 Samuel 10:16	And Saul said to his uncle, “He told us that the donkeys would be found.” But the word about the kingdom, which Samuel had spoken to him, he did not reveal to him.
1 Samuel 10:17	And Samuel called the people together, to the Lord at Mizpah.
1 Samuel 10:18	And he said to the sons of Israel: “Thus says the Lord God of Israel: I led Israel away from Egypt, and I rescued you from the hand of the Egyptians, and from the hand of all the kings who were afflicting you.
1 Samuel 10:19	But today you have rejected your God, who alone saved you from all your evils and tribulations. And you have said: ‘By no means! Instead, appoint a king over us.’ Now therefore, stand in the sight of the Lord, by your tribes and by your families.”
1 Samuel 10:20	And Samuel brought near all the tribes of Israel, and the lot fell upon the tribe of Benjamin.
1 Samuel 10:21	And he brought near the tribe of Benjamin, with its families, and the lot fell upon the family of Matri. And then it went to Saul, the son of Kish. Therefore, they sought him, but he was not found.
1 Samuel 10:22	And after these things, they consulted the Lord as to whether he would soon arrive there. And the Lord responded, “Behold, he is hidden at home.”
1 Samuel 10:23	And so they ran and brought him there. And he stood in the midst of the people, and he was taller than the entire people, from the shoulders upward.
1 Samuel 10:24	And Samuel said to all the people: “Certainly, you see the one whom the Lord has chosen, that there is not anyone like him among all the people.” And all the people cried out and said, “Long live the king!”
1 Samuel 10:25	Then Samuel spoke to the people the law of the kingdom, and he wrote it in a book, and he stored it in the sight of the Lord. And Samuel dismissed all the people, each one to his own house.
1 Samuel 10:26	And then Saul went away to his own house at Gibeah. And a portion of the army, whose hearts had been touched by God, went away with him.
1 Samuel 10:27	Yet the sons of Belial said, “How could this one be able to save us?” And they despised him, and they brought him no presents. But he pretended not to hear them.
1 Samuel 11:1	And, about a month afterward, it happened that Nahash the Ammonite ascended and began to fight against Jabesh Gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, “Consider a pact with us, and we will serve you.”
1 Samuel 11:2	And Nahash the Ammonite responded to them, “With this will I strike a pact with you: if I may pluck out all your right eyes, and set you as a disgrace against all of Israel.”
1 Samuel 11:3	And the elders of Jabesh said to him: “Grant to us seven days, so that we may send messengers to all the borders of Israel. And if there is no one who may defend us, we will go out to you.”
1 Samuel 11:4	Therefore, the messengers arrived at Gibeah of Saul. And they spoke these words in the hearing of the people. And all the people lifted up their voice and wept.
1 Samuel 11:5	And behold, Saul arrived, following oxen from the field. And he said, “What has happened to the people that they would weep?” And they explained to him the words of the men from Jabesh.
1 Samuel 11:6	And the Spirit of the Lord rose up within Saul when he had heard these words, and his fury was enraged exceedingly.
1 Samuel 11:7	And taking both the oxen, he cut them into pieces, and he sent them into all the borders of Israel, by the hands of messengers, saying, “Whoever will not go out and follow Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done to his oxen.” Therefore, the fear of the Lord entered into the people, and they went out like one man.
1 Samuel 11:8	And he took a census of them at Bezek. And there were three hundred thousand of the sons of Israel. And there were thirty thousand of the men of Judah.
1 Samuel 11:9	And they said to the messengers who had arrived: “So shall you say to the men who are of Jabesh Gilead: ‘Tomorrow, when the sun will be hot, you shall have salvation.’ ” Therefore, the messengers went and announced it to the men of Jabesh, who became joyful.
1 Samuel 11:10	And they said, “In the morning, we will go out to you. And you may do whatever you please with us.”
1 Samuel 11:11	And it happened that, when the next day had arrived, Saul arranged the people into three parts. And he entered into the middle of the camp at the early morning watch, and he struck down the Ammonites until the day grew hot. Then the remainder were dispersed, so much so that not even two of them were left together.
1 Samuel 11:12	And the people said to Samuel: “Who is the one who said, ‘Should Saul reign over us?’ Present the men, and we will put them to death.”
1 Samuel 11:13	And Saul said: “No one shall be killed on this day. For today the Lord has accomplished salvation in Israel.”
1 Samuel 11:14	Then Samuel said to the people, “Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and let us renew the kingdom there.”
1 Samuel 11:15	And all the people traveled to Gilgal. And there they made Saul king, in the sight of the Lord at Gilgal. And there they immolated victims of peace, before the Lord. And there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced exceedingly.
1 Samuel 12:1	Then Samuel said to all of Israel: “Behold, I have listened to your voice, according to all that you have said to me, and I have appointed a king over you.
1 Samuel 12:2	And now the king advances before you. But I am old and have gray hair. Moreover, my sons are with you. And so, having conversed before you from my youth, even until this day, behold, I am here.
1 Samuel 12:3	Speak about me before the Lord, and before his Christ, as to whether I have taken anyone’s ox or donkey, or whether I have falsely accused anyone, or whether I have oppressed anyone, or whether I have accepted a bribe from the hand of anyone, and I will repudiate the same, this day, and I will restore it to you.”
1 Samuel 12:4	And they said, “You have not falsely accused us, nor oppressed us, nor have you taken anything from the hand of anyone.”
1 Samuel 12:5	And he said to them, “The Lord is a witness against you, and his Christ is a witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand.” And they said, “He is the witness.”
1 Samuel 12:6	And Samuel said to the people: “It is the Lord who appointed Moses and Aaron, and who led our fathers away from the land of Egypt.
1 Samuel 12:7	Now therefore, stand, so that I may contend in judgment against you before the Lord, about all the mercies of the Lord, which he has given to you and to your fathers:
1 Samuel 12:8	How Jacob entered into Egypt, and your fathers cried out to the Lord. And the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, and he led your fathers away from Egypt, and he transferred them to this place.
1 Samuel 12:9	But they forgot the Lord their God, and so he delivered them into the hand of Sisera, master of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab. And they fought against them.
1 Samuel 12:10	But afterward, they cried out to the Lord, and they said: ‘We have sinned, because we have forsaken the Lord, and we have served the Baals and Ashtaroth. Now therefore, rescue us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve you.’
1 Samuel 12:11	And the Lord sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and he rescued you from the hand of your enemies all around, and you lived in confidence.
1 Samuel 12:12	Then, seeing that Nahash, the king of the sons of Ammon, had arrived against you, you said to me, ‘By no means! Instead, a king shall reign over us,’ even though the Lord your God was reigning over you.
1 Samuel 12:13	Now therefore, your king is present, whom you chose and requested. Behold, the Lord has given you a king.
1 Samuel 12:14	If you will fear the Lord, and serve him, and listen to his voice, and not provoke the mouth of the Lord, then both you, and the king who rules over you, will be following the Lord your God.
1 Samuel 12:15	But if you will not listen to the voice of the Lord, but instead you provoke his words, then the hand of the Lord will be over you and over your fathers.
1 Samuel 12:16	Therefore, stand now, and see this great thing, which the Lord will accomplish in your sight.
1 Samuel 12:17	Is it not the harvest of the wheat today? I will call upon the Lord, and he will send thunder and rain. And you will know and see that you have done a great evil in the sight of the Lord, by petitioning for a king over you.”
1 Samuel 12:18	And Samuel cried out to the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain on that day.
1 Samuel 12:19	And all the people feared the Lord and Samuel exceedingly. And all the people said to Samuel: “Pray, on behalf of your servants, to the Lord your God, so that we may not die. For we have added to all our sins this evil, that we would petition for a king.”
1 Samuel 12:20	Then Samuel said to the people: “Do not be afraid. You have done all this evil. Yet truly, do not choose to withdraw from the back of the Lord. Instead, serve the Lord with all your heart.
1 Samuel 12:21	And do not choose to turn aside after vanities, which will never benefit you, nor rescue you, since they are empty.
1 Samuel 12:22	And the Lord will not abandon his people, because of his great name. For the Lord has sworn to make you his people.
1 Samuel 12:23	So then, far be it from me, this sin against the Lord, that I would cease to pray for you. And so, I will teach you the good and upright way.
1 Samuel 12:24	Therefore, fear the Lord, and serve him in truth and from your whole heart. For you have seen the great works that he has done among you.
1 Samuel 12:25	But if you persevere in wickedness, both you and your king will perish together.”
1 Samuel 13:1	When he began to reign, Saul was the son of one year, and he reigned over Israel for two years.
1 Samuel 13:2	And Saul chose for himself three thousand men of Israel. And two thousand were with Saul at Michmash and at mount Bethel. Then one thousand were with Jonathan at Gibeah of Benjamin. But the remainder of the people, he sent back, each one to his own tent.
1 Samuel 13:3	And Jonathan struck the garrison of the Philistines, which was in Gibeah. And when the Philistines had heard about it, Saul sounded the trumpet over all the land, saying, “Let the Hebrews listen.”
1 Samuel 13:4	And all of Israel heard this report, that Saul had struck the garrison of the Philistines. And Israel raised himself up against the Philistines. Then the people cried out to Saul at Gilgal.
1 Samuel 13:5	And the Philistines gathered to do battle against Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and the remainder of the common people, who were very many, like the sand that is on the shore of the sea. And ascending, they encamped at Michmash, toward the east of Bethaven.
1 Samuel 13:6	And when the men of Israel had seen themselves to be in a narrowed position, they hid themselves in caves, and in out of the way places, and in rocks, and in hollows, and in pits (for the people were distressed).
1 Samuel 13:7	Then some of the Hebrews crossed over the Jordan, into the land of Gad and Gilead. And while Saul was still at Gilgal, the entire people who followed him were terrified.
1 Samuel 13:8	But he waited for seven days, in accord with what was agreed with Samuel. But Samuel did not arrive at Gilgal, for the people were scattering away from him.
1 Samuel 13:9	Therefore, Saul said, “Bring me the holocaust and the peace offerings.” And he offered the holocaust.
1 Samuel 13:10	And when he had completed the offering of the holocaust, behold, Samuel arrived. And Saul went out to meet him, so that he might greet him.
1 Samuel 13:11	And Samuel said to him, “What have you done?” Saul responded: “Since I saw that the people were scattering away from me, and you had not arrived after the agreed upon days, and yet the Philistines had gathered together at Michmash,
1 Samuel 13:12	I said: ‘Now the Philistines will descend to me at Gilgal. And I have not appeased the face of the Lord.’ Compelled by necessity, I offered the holocaust.
1 Samuel 13:13	And Samuel said to Saul: “You have acted foolishly. You have not kept the commandments of the Lord your God, which he instructed to you. And if you had not acted in this way, the Lord would, here and now, have prepared your kingdom over Israel forever.
1 Samuel 13:14	But by no means shall your kingdom rise up any more. The Lord has sought for himself a man according to his own heart. And him the Lord has instructed to be the leader over his people, because you have not kept what the Lord has instructed.”
1 Samuel 13:15	Then Samuel rose up and ascended from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And the remainder of the people ascended after Saul, to meet the people who were fighting against them, going from Gilgal into Gibeah, to the hill of Benjamin. And Saul took a census of the people, who had been found to be with him, about six hundred men.
1 Samuel 13:16	And Saul, and his son Jonathan, and the people who had been found to be with them, were at Gibeah of Benjamin. But the Philistines had settled in at Michmash.
1 Samuel 13:17	And three companies went out from the camp of the Philistines, in order to plunder. One company was traveling toward the way of Ophrah, to the land of Shual.
1 Samuel 13:18	Then another entered along the way of Beth-horon. But the third turned itself to the way of the border, overhanging the valley of Zeboim, opposite the desert.
1 Samuel 13:19	Now there was no worker of iron to be found in all the land of Israel. For the Philistines had been cautious, lest perhaps the Hebrews might make swords or spears.
1 Samuel 13:20	Therefore, all of Israel descended to the Philistines, so that each man could sharpen his plowshare, or pick axe, or hatchet, or hoe.
1 Samuel 13:21	For their plow blades, and pick axes, and pitch forks, and axes had become blunt, and even the handles needed to be repaired.
1 Samuel 13:22	And when the day of battle had arrived, there was found neither sword nor spear in the hand of the entire people who were with Saul and Jonathan, except for Saul and his son Jonathan.
1 Samuel 13:23	Then the army of the Philistines went out in order to go across Michmash.
1 Samuel 14:1	And it happened that, on a certain day, Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the youth who bore his armor, “Come, and let us go over to the garrison of the Philistines, which is across from that place.” But he did not reveal this to his father.
1 Samuel 14:2	Moreover, Saul was staying in the furthermost part of Gibeah, below the pomegranate tree that was at Migron. And the people with him were about six hundred men.
1 Samuel 14:3	And Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, the brother of Ichabod, the son of Phinehas, who had been born of Eli, the priest of the Lord at Shiloh, wore the ephod. But the people did not know where Jonathan had gone.
1 Samuel 14:4	Now there were, between the ascents along which Jonathan strove to cross to the garrison of the Philistines, rocks projecting from both sides, and, in the manner of teeth, boulders breaking out from one side and the other. The name of one was Shining, and the name of the other was Thorny.
1 Samuel 14:5	One boulder projected toward the north, opposite Michmash, and the other toward the south, opposite Gibeah.
1 Samuel 14:6	Then Jonathan said to the youth who bore his armor: “Come, let us go across to the garrison of these uncircumcised. And perhaps the Lord may act on our behalf. For it is not difficult for the Lord to save, either by many, or by few.”
1 Samuel 14:7	And his armor bearer said to him: “Do all that is pleasing to your soul. Go wherever you wish, and I will be with you, wherever you will choose.”
1 Samuel 14:8	And Jonathan said: “Behold, we will cross over to these men. And when we will be seen by them,
1 Samuel 14:9	if they have spoken to us in this way, ‘Stay until we come to you,’ let us stand still in our place, and not ascend to them.
1 Samuel 14:10	But if they will say, ‘Ascend to us,’ let us ascend. For the Lord has delivered them into our hands. This will be the sign to us.”
1 Samuel 14:11	And so, both of them appeared before the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, “See, the Hebrews have come out from the holes in which they had been hiding.”
1 Samuel 14:12	And the men of the garrison spoke to Jonathan and to his armor bearer, and they said, “Ascend to us, and we will show you something.” And Jonathan said to his armor bearer: “Let us ascend. Follow me. For the Lord has delivered them into the hands of Israel.”
1 Samuel 14:13	Then Jonathan ascended, crawling on his hands and feet, and his armor bearer after him. And then, some fell before Jonathan, others his armor bearer killed as he was following him.
1 Samuel 14:14	And the first slaughter was made when Jonathan and his armor bearer struck down about twenty of the men, in the midst of an area of land that a yoke of oxen would usually plow in a day.
1 Samuel 14:15	And a miracle occurred in the camp, out in the fields. And all of the people of their garrison, who had gone out in order to plunder, were stupefied. And the earth trembled. And it happened as a miracle from God.
1 Samuel 14:16	And the watchmen of Saul, who were at Gibeah of Benjamin, looked out, and behold, a multitude was thrown down and dispersed, this way and that.
1 Samuel 14:17	And Saul said to the people who were with him, “Inquire and see who has gone out from us.” And when they had inquired, it was found that Jonathan and his armor bearer were not present.
1 Samuel 14:18	And Saul said to Ahijah, “Bring the ark of the God.” (For the ark of God was, in that day, with the sons of Israel in that place.)
1 Samuel 14:19	And while Saul spoke to the priest, there arose a great tumult in the camp of the Philistines. And it was increasing, little by little, and it was being heard more clearly. And Saul said to the priest, “Withdraw your hand.”
1 Samuel 14:20	Then Saul, and all the people who were with him, cried out together, and they went to the place of the conflict. And behold, each one’s sword had been turned against his neighbor, and there was a very great slaughter.
1 Samuel 14:21	Moreover, the Hebrews who had been with the Philistines yesterday and the day before, and who had ascended with them into the camp, turned back so that they might be with those of Israel who were with Saul and Jonathan.
1 Samuel 14:22	Likewise, all the Israelites who had hidden themselves on mount Ephraim, hearing that the Philistines had fled, joined themselves with their own in the battle. And there were with Saul about ten thousand men.
1 Samuel 14:23	And the Lord saved Israel on that day. But the fight continued as far as Bethaven.
1 Samuel 14:24	And the men of Israel were joined together on that day. And Saul made the people swear, saying, “Cursed be the man who will eat bread, until evening, until I am avenged of my enemies.” And the entire people did not consume bread.
1 Samuel 14:25	And all the common people went into a forest, in which there was honey on the surface of the field.
1 Samuel 14:26	And so the people entered the forest, and there appeared flowing honey, but no one drew his hand near his mouth. For the people were afraid of the oath.
1 Samuel 14:27	But Jonathan had not heard that his father had bound the people to an oath. And so he extended the top of the staff that he was holding in his hand, and he dipped it in a honeycomb. And he turned his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were brightened.
1 Samuel 14:28	And in response, one of the people said, “Your father has bound the people by an oath, saying: ‘Cursed be the man who will eat any bread this day.’ ” (For the people were faint.)
1 Samuel 14:29	And Jonathan said: “My father has troubled the land. You have seen for yourselves that my eyes were brightened, because I tasted a little of this honey.
1 Samuel 14:30	How much more so, if the people had eaten from the plunder that they find with their enemies? Would not a greater slaughter have been accomplished among the Philistines?”
1 Samuel 14:31	Therefore, on that day, they struck down the Philistines, from Michmash as far as Aijalon. But the people were exceedingly wearied.
1 Samuel 14:32	And turning to the spoils, they took sheep, and oxen, and calves, and they slew them on the ground. And the people ate with blood.
1 Samuel 14:33	Then they reported to Saul, saying that the people had sinned against the Lord, eating with blood. And he said: “You have transgressed. Roll a great stone to me, here and now.”
1 Samuel 14:34	And Saul said: “Disperse yourselves among the common people, and tell each one of them to bring to me his ox and his ram, and to slay them upon this stone, and to eat, so that you will not sin against the Lord, in eating with blood.” And so, each one, out of all the people, brought his ox, by his own hand, throughout the night. And they slew them there.
1 Samuel 14:35	Then Saul built an altar to the Lord. And so, it was then that he first began to build an altar to the Lord.
1 Samuel 14:36	And Saul said: “Let us fall upon the Philistines by night, and lay waste to them even until the morning light. And let us not leave behind a man among them.” And the people said, “Do all that seems good in your eyes.” And the priest said, “Let us draw near to God in this place.”
1 Samuel 14:37	And Saul consulted the Lord: “Shall I pursue the Philistines? Will you deliver them into the hands of Israel?” And he did not respond to him on that day.
1 Samuel 14:38	And Saul said: “Bring here every single leader of the people. And we shall know and see by whom this sin was committed this day.
1 Samuel 14:39	As the Lord lives, who is the Saviour of Israel, even if it were done by my son Jonathan, without retraction he shall die.” In this, no one among all the people contradicted him.
1 Samuel 14:40	And he said to all of Israel, “Separate yourselves on one side, and I, with my son Jonathan, will be on the other side.” And the people responded to Saul, “Do what seems good in your eyes.”
1 Samuel 14:41	And Saul said to the Lord, the God of Israel: “O Lord, God of Israel, grant a sign: Why is it that you will not respond to your servant this day? If this iniquity is in me, or in my son Jonathan, grant an indication. Or if this iniquity is in your people, grant a sanctification.” And Jonathan and Saul were discovered, but the people were released.
1 Samuel 14:42	And Saul said, “Cast lots between myself and Jonathan, my son.” And Jonathan was caught.
1 Samuel 14:43	Then Saul said to Jonathan, “Tell me what you have done.” And Jonathan revealed to him, and said: “Truly, I tasted a little honey with the top of the staff that was in my hand. And behold, I shall die.”
1 Samuel 14:44	And Saul said, “May God do these things to me, and may he add these other things, for you shall surely die, Jonathan!”
1 Samuel 14:45	And the people said to Saul: “Why should Jonathan have to die, who has accomplished this great salvation in Israel? This is wrong. As the Lord lives, not one hair of his head should fall to the ground. For he has wrought with God this day.” Therefore, the people freed Jonathan, so that he would not die.
1 Samuel 14:46	And Saul withdrew, and he did not pursue the Philistines. And the Philistines went away to their own places.
1 Samuel 14:47	And Saul, his kingdom having been confirmed over Israel, was fighting against all his enemies on all sides: against Moab, and the sons of Ammon, and Edom, and the kings of Zobah, and the Philistines. And wherever he turned himself, he was successful.
1 Samuel 14:48	And gathering together an army, he struck Amalek. And he rescued Israel from the hand of those who would lay waste to them.
1 Samuel 14:49	Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Malchishua. And as for the names of his two daughters: the name of the firstborn daughter was Merab, and the name of the younger one was Michal.
1 Samuel 14:50	And the name of the wife of Saul was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz. And the name of the first ruler of his military was Abner, the son of Ner, the first cousin of Saul.
1 Samuel 14:51	For Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner was the father of Abner, and the son of Abiel.
1 Samuel 14:52	Now there was a powerful war against the Philistines during all the days of Saul. And so, whomever Saul had seen to be a strong man, and fit for battle, he joined him to himself.
1 Samuel 15:1	And Samuel said to Saul: “The Lord sent me, so that I would anoint you as king over his people Israel. Now therefore, listen to the voice of the Lord.
1 Samuel 15:2	‘Thus says the Lord of hosts: I have taken account of all that Amalek has done to Israel, how he stood against him in the way, when he ascended from Egypt.
1 Samuel 15:3	Now therefore, go and strike Amalek, and demolish all that is his. You shall not spare him, and you shall not covet anything out of the things that are his. Instead, kill from man even to woman, and little ones as well as infants, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.’ ”
1 Samuel 15:4	And so, Saul instructed the people, and he numbered them like lambs: two hundred thousand foot soldiers, and ten thousand men of Judah.
1 Samuel 15:5	And when Saul had arrived as far as the city of Amalek, he placed ambushes at the torrent.
1 Samuel 15:6	And Saul said to the Kenite: “Go away, withdraw, and descend from Amalek. Otherwise, I will include you with him. For you showed mercy to all the sons of Israel, when they ascended from Egypt.” And so the Kenite withdrew from the midst of Amalek.
1 Samuel 15:7	And Saul struck down Amalek, from Havilah even until you arrive at Shur, which is opposite the region of Egypt.
1 Samuel 15:8	And he apprehended Agag, the king of Amalek, alive. But all the common people he put to death with the edge of the sword.
1 Samuel 15:9	And Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the flocks of sheep, and of the herds, and the garments, and the rams, and all that was beautiful, and they were not willing to destroy them. Yet truly, whatever was vile or worthless, these they demolished.
1 Samuel 15:10	Then the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying
1 Samuel 15:11	“It displeases me that I have appointed Saul as king. For he has forsaken me, and he has not fulfilled the work of my words.” And Samuel was greatly saddened, and he cried out to the Lord, all night long
1 Samuel 15:12	And when Samuel had risen while it was still dark, so that he might go to Saul in the morning, it was reported to Samuel that Saul had arrived at Carmel, and that he had erected for himself a triumphant arch. And, while returning, he had continued on and descended to Gilgal. Therefore, Samuel went to Saul. And Saul was offering a holocaust to the Lord, from the best of the spoils, which he had brought from Amalek.
1 Samuel 15:13	And when Samuel had gone to Saul, Saul said to him: “You are the blessed of the Lord. I have fulfilled the word of the Lord.”
1 Samuel 15:14	And Samuel said, “Then what is this voice of the flocks, which resounds in my ears, and of the herds, which I am hearing?”
1 Samuel 15:15	And Saul said: “They have brought these from Amalek. For the people spared the best of the sheep and of the herds, so that they might be immolated to the Lord your God. Yet truly, the remainder we have slain.”
1 Samuel 15:16	Then Samuel said to Saul, “Permit me, and I will reveal to you what the Lord has said to me this night.” And he said to him, “Speak.”
1 Samuel 15:17	And Samuel said: “Was it not when you were little in your own eyes that you were made the head of the tribes of Israel? And the Lord anointed you as king over Israel.
1 Samuel 15:18	And the Lord sent you on the way, and he said: ‘Go and put to death the sinners of Amalek. And you shall fight against them, even unto utter annihilation.’
1 Samuel 15:19	Why then, did you not listen to the voice of the Lord? Instead, you turned to the spoils, and you did evil in the eyes of the Lord.”
1 Samuel 15:20	And Saul said to Samuel: “On the contrary, I did listen to the voice of the Lord, and I walked in the way along which the Lord sent me, and I led back Agag, the king of Amalek, and I put to death Amalek.
1 Samuel 15:21	But the people took some of the spoils, sheep and oxen, as the first-fruits of those things that were slain, to immolate to the Lord their God at Gilgal.”
1 Samuel 15:22	And Samuel said: “Does the Lord want holocausts and victims, and not instead that the voice of the Lord should be obeyed? For obedience is better than sacrifice. And to heed is greater than to offer the fat of rams.
1 Samuel 15:23	Therefore, it is like the sin of paganism to rebel. And it is like the crime of idolatry to refuse to obey. For this reason, therefore, because you have rejected the word of the Lord, the Lord has also rejected you from being king.”
1 Samuel 15:24	And Saul said to Samuel: “I have sinned, for I have transgressed the word of the Lord, and your words, by fearing the people and obeying their voice.
1 Samuel 15:25	But now, I beg you, to bear my sin, and to return with me, so that I may adore the Lord.”
1 Samuel 15:26	And Samuel said to Saul: “I will not return with you. For you have rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord has rejected you from being king over Israel.”
1 Samuel 15:27	And Samuel turned away, so that he might depart. But Saul took hold of the edge of his cloak, and it tore.
1 Samuel 15:28	And Samuel said to him: “The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel away from you this day. And he has delivered it to your neighbor, who is better than you are.
1 Samuel 15:29	Moreover, the One who triumphs within Israel will not spare, and he will not be moved to repentance. For he is not a man, that he should repent.”
1 Samuel 15:30	Then he said: “I have sinned. But now, honor me before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, so that I may adore the Lord your God.”
1 Samuel 15:31	Therefore, Samuel turned again after Saul. And Saul adored the Lord.
1 Samuel 15:32	And Samuel said, “Bring near to me Agag, the king of Amalek.” And Agag, very fat and trembling, was presented to him. And Agag said, “Does bitter death separate in this manner?”
1 Samuel 15:33	And Samuel said, “Just as your sword caused women to be without their children, so will your mother be without her children among women.” And Samuel cut him into pieces, before the Lord at Gilgal.
1 Samuel 15:34	Then Samuel went away to Ramah. But Saul ascended to his house at Gibeah.
1 Samuel 15:35	And Samuel did not see Saul any more, until the day of his death. Yet truly, Samuel mourned for Saul, because the Lord regretted that he had appointed him as king over Israel.
1 Samuel 16:1	And the Lord said to Samuel: “How long will you mourn for Saul, though I have rejected him, so that he would not reign over Israel? Fill your horn with oil and approach, so that I may send you to Jesse of Bethlehem. For I have provided a king from among his sons for myself.”
1 Samuel 16:2	And Samuel said: “How shall I go? For Saul will hear of it, and he will put me to death.” And the Lord said: “You shall take, by your hand, a calf from the herd. And you shall say, ‘I have arrived in order to immolate to the Lord.’
1 Samuel 16:3	And you shall call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will reveal to you what you should do. And you shall anoint whomever I will indicate to you.”
1 Samuel 16:4	Therefore, Samuel did just as the Lord told him. And he went to Bethlehem, and the elders of the city wondered. And meeting him, they said, “Is your arrival peaceful?”
1 Samuel 16:5	And he said: “It is peaceful. I have arrived in order to immolate to the Lord. Be sanctified, and come with me to the sacrifice.” Then he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and he called them to the sacrifice.
1 Samuel 16:6	And when they had entered, he saw Eliab, and he said, “Could he be the Christ in the sight of the Lord?”
1 Samuel 16:7	And the Lord said to Samuel: “You should not look with favor on his face, nor on the height of his stature. For I have rejected him. Neither do I judge by the appearance of a man. For man sees those things that are apparent, but the Lord beholds the heart.”
1 Samuel 16:8	And Jesse called Abinadab, and he brought him before Samuel. And he said, “Neither has the Lord chosen this one.”
1 Samuel 16:9	Then Jesse brought Shammah. And he said about him, “And the Lord has not chosen this one.”
1 Samuel 16:10	And so Jesse brought his seven sons before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, “The Lord has not chosen any of these.”
1 Samuel 16:11	And Samuel said to Jesse, “Could the sons now be completed?” But he responded, “There still remains a little one, and he pastures the sheep.” And Samuel said to Jesse: “Send and bring him. For we shall not recline to eat, until he arrives here.”
1 Samuel 16:12	Therefore, he sent and brought him. Now he was ruddy, and beautiful to behold, and with a stately face. And the Lord said, “Rise up, anoint him! For it is he.”
1 Samuel 16:13	Therefore, Samuel took the horn of oil, and he anointed him in the midst of his brothers. And the Spirit of the Lord was guiding David from that day and thereafter. And Samuel rose up, and he went away to Ramah.
1 Samuel 16:14	But the Spirit of the Lord withdrew from Saul, and a wicked spirit from the Lord disturbed him.
1 Samuel 16:15	And the servants of Saul said to him: “Behold, an evil spirit from God disturbs you.
1 Samuel 16:16	May our lord order, and your servants, who are before you, will seek a man skillful in playing a stringed instrument, so that when the evil spirit from the Lord assails you, he may play with his hand, and you may bear it more easily.”
1 Samuel 16:17	And Saul said to his servants, “Then provide for me someone who can play well, and bring him to me.”
1 Samuel 16:18	And one of the servants, responding, said: “Behold, I have seen the son of Jesse of Bethlehem, a skillful player, and very strong and robust, a man fit for war, and prudent in words, a handsome man. And the Lord is with him.”
1 Samuel 16:19	Therefore, Saul sent messengers to Jesse, saying, “Send to me your son David, who is in the pastures.”
1 Samuel 16:20	And so, Jesse took a donkey laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a kid from one of the goats, and he sent them, by the hand of his son David, to Saul.
1 Samuel 16:21	And David went to Saul, and stood before him. And he loved him exceedingly, and he made him his armor bearer.
1 Samuel 16:22	And Saul sent to Jesse, saying: “Let David remain before my sight. For he has found favor in my eyes.”
1 Samuel 16:23	And so, whenever the evil spirit from the Lord assailed Saul, David took up his stringed instrument, and he struck it with his hand, and Saul was refreshed and uplifted. For the evil spirit withdrew from him.
1 Samuel 17:1	Now the Philistines, gathering their troops for battle, assembled at Socoh of Judah. And they made camp between Socoh and Azekah, within the borders of Dammim.
1 Samuel 17:2	But Saul and the sons of Israel, having gathered together, went to the Valley of Terebinth. And they positioned the army so as to fight against the Philistines.
1 Samuel 17:3	And the Philistines were standing on a mountain on the one side, and Israel was standing on a mountain on the other side. And there was a valley between them.
1 Samuel 17:4	And there went out from the camp of the Philistines, a man of illegitimate birth, named Goliath of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a palm.
1 Samuel 17:5	And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was clothed with a breastplate of scales. Moreover, the weight of his breastplate was five thousand shekels of brass.
1 Samuel 17:6	And he had plates of brass on his lower legs, and a small shield of brass was covering his shoulders.
1 Samuel 17:7	Now the shaft of his spear was like the beam used by a weaver. And the iron of his spear held six hundred shekels of iron. And his armor bearer went before him.
1 Samuel 17:8	And standing still, he cried out to the battle lines of Israel, and he said to them: “Why have you arrived, prepared for battle? Am I not a Philistine, and are you not the servants of Saul? Choose one man from among you, and let him descend to do battle alone.
1 Samuel 17:9	If he is able to fight with me and to strike me down, we will be your servants. But if I will prevail over him, and strike him down, you will be the servants, and you will serve us.”
1 Samuel 17:10	And the Philistine was saying: “I have reproached the troops of Israel today. Present a man to me, and let him undertake a fight against me alone.”
1 Samuel 17:11	And Saul and all the Israelites, hearing these words of the Philistine in this manner, were stupefied and exceedingly afraid.
1 Samuel 17:12	Now David was the son of an Ephrathite man, the one mentioned above, from Bethlehem of Judah, whose name was Jesse. He had eight sons, and during the days of Saul, he was an elderly man, and of great age among men.
1 Samuel 17:13	Now his three eldest sons followed Saul into battle. And the names of his three sons, who went to the battle, were Eliab, the firstborn, and the second, Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
1 Samuel 17:14	But David was the youngest. Therefore, when the three eldest had followed Saul,
1 Samuel 17:15	David went away from Saul, and he returned, so that he might pasture the flock of his father at Bethlehem.
1 Samuel 17:16	Truly, the Philistine advanced morning and evening, and he stood forth, for forty days.
1 Samuel 17:17	Now Jesse said to his son David: “Take, for your brothers, an ephah of cooked grain, and these ten loaves, and hurry to the camp, to your brothers.
1 Samuel 17:18	And you shall carry these ten little cheeses to the tribune. And visit your brothers, to see if they are doing well. And learn with whom they have been stationed.”
1 Samuel 17:19	But they were in the valley of Terebinth, with Saul and all the sons of Israel, fighting against the Philistines.
1 Samuel 17:20	And so, David rose up in the morning, and he commended the flock to the caretaker. And he went away burdened, just as Jesse had instructed him. And he went to the place of the battle line, and to the army, which, in going out to fight, was shouting in the conflict.
1 Samuel 17:21	For Israel had positioned their troops, but the Philistines also had prepared themselves against them.
1 Samuel 17:22	Then, leaving the items that he had brought under the hand of the keeper of baggage, David ran to the place of the conflict. And he was asking if all was going well with his brothers.
1 Samuel 17:23	And while he was still speaking with them, there appeared the man of spurious descent, whose name was Goliath, the Philistine of Gath, ascending from the camp of the Philistines. And he was speaking in these same words, which David heard.
1 Samuel 17:24	Then all the Israelites, when they had seen the man, fled from his face, fearing him greatly.
1 Samuel 17:25	And someone of Israel said: “Have you seen this man, who has risen up. For he ascended in order to reproach Israel. Therefore, the man who will strike him down, the king will enrich with great wealth, and will give to him his daughter, and will cause his father’s house to be free of tribute in Israel.”
1 Samuel 17:26	And David spoke to the men who were standing with him, saying: “What will be given to the man who will have struck down this Philistine, and who will have taken away the disgrace from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should reproach the soldiers of the living God?”
1 Samuel 17:27	Then the people repeated to him the same words, saying, “These things shall be given to the man who will have struck him down.”
1 Samuel 17:28	Now when Eliab, his eldest brother, had heard this, as he was speaking with the others, he became angry against David, and he said: “Why did you come here? And why did you leave behind those few sheep in the wilderness? I know your pride and the wickedness of your heart, that you have come down so that you might see the battle.”
1 Samuel 17:29	And David said: “What have I done? Is there any word against me?”
1 Samuel 17:30	And he turned away from him a little, toward another. And he asked the same question. And the people responded to him as before.
1 Samuel 17:31	Now the words that David had spoken were heard and reported in the sight of Saul.
1 Samuel 17:32	When he had been led to Saul, he said to him: “Let no one lose heart over him. I, your servant, shall go and fight against the Philistine.”
1 Samuel 17:33	And Saul said to David: “You are not able to withstand this Philistine, nor to fight against him. For you are a boy, but he has been a warrior from his boyhood.”
1 Samuel 17:34	And David said to Saul: “Your servant was pasturing the flock of his father. And there approached a lion or a bear, and it took a ram from the midst of the flock.
1 Samuel 17:35	And I pursued after them, and I struck them, and I rescued from their mouth. And they rose up against me. And I caught them by the throat, and I strangled and killed them.
1 Samuel 17:36	For I, your servant, have killed both lion and bear. And so this uncircumcised Philistine, too, will be like one of them. Now I will go and take away the reproach of the people. For who is this uncircumcised Philistine, who has dared to curse the army of the living God?”
1 Samuel 17:37	And David said, “The Lord who rescued me from the hand of the lion, and from the hand of the bear, he himself will free me from the hand of this Philistine.” Then Saul said to David, “Go, and may the Lord be with you.”
1 Samuel 17:38	And Saul clothed David with his garments. And he placed a helmet of brass upon his head, and he clothed him with a breastplate.
1 Samuel 17:39	Then David, having girded his sword over his armor, began to see if he could walk in the armor. But he was not accustomed to it. And David said to Saul: “I cannot move about in this way. For I am not used to it.” And he put them aside.
1 Samuel 17:40	And he took up his staff, which he held always in his hands. And he chose for himself five very smooth stones from the torrent. And he put them into the shepherd’s bag that he had with him. And he took up a sling in his hand. And he went out against the Philistine.
1 Samuel 17:41	And the Philistine, advancing, went and drew near against David. And his armor bearer was before him.
1 Samuel 17:42	And when the Philistine had seen and considered David, he despised him. For he was a youth, ruddy and of handsome appearance.
1 Samuel 17:43	And the Philistine said to David, “Am I a dog, that you approach against me with a staff?” And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.
1 Samuel 17:44	And he said to David, “Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the air, and to the beasts of the earth.”
1 Samuel 17:45	But David said to the Philistine: “You approach me with sword, and spear, and shield. But I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, which you have reproached.
1 Samuel 17:46	Today, the Lord will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you down. And I will take your head from you. And today, I will give the carcasses of the camp of the Philistines to the birds of the air, and to the beasts of the earth, so that all the earth may know that God is with Israel.
1 Samuel 17:47	And this entire assembly will know that the Lord does not save by sword, nor by spear. For this is his war, and he will deliver you into our hands.”
1 Samuel 17:48	Then, when the Philistine had risen up, and was approaching, and was drawing near against David, David hurried and ran to the fight against the Philistine.
1 Samuel 17:49	And he put his hand into his bag, and took out one stone. And swinging it around, he cast it with the sling and struck the Philistine on the forehead. And the stone became imbedded in his forehead. And he fell on his face, upon the ground.
1 Samuel 17:50	And David prevailed against the Philistine with a sling and a stone. And he struck and killed the Philistine. But since David held no sword in his hand,
1 Samuel 17:51	he ran and stood over the Philistine, and he took his sword, and withdrew it from the sheath. And he killed him and cut off his head. Then the Philistines, seeing that their strongest man was dead, fled away.
1 Samuel 17:52	And the men of Israel and Judah, rising up, shouted and pursued after the Philistines, even until they arrived at the valley and as far as the gates of Ekron. And many wounded among the Philistines fell on the way of Shaaraim, and as far as Gath, and as far as Ekron.
1 Samuel 17:53	And the sons of Israel, returning after they had pursued the Philistines, invaded their camp.
1 Samuel 17:54	Then David, taking up the head of the Philistine, brought it to Jerusalem. Yet truly, he placed his armor in his own tent.
1 Samuel 17:55	Now at the time that Saul had seen David going out against the Philistines, he said to Abner, the leader of the military, “From what stock is this youth descended, Abner?” And Abner said, “As your soul lives, O king, I do not know.”
1 Samuel 17:56	And the king said, “You shall inquire as to whose son this boy may be.”
1 Samuel 17:57	And when David had returned, after the Philistine had been struck down, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul, having the head of the Philistine in his hand.
1 Samuel 17:58	And Saul said to him, “Young man, from what ancestry are you?” And David said, “I am the son of your servant Jesse of Bethlehem.”
1 Samuel 18:1	And it happened that, when he had completed speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan adhered to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him like his own soul.
1 Samuel 18:2	And Saul took him that day, and would not permit him to return to his father’s house.
1 Samuel 18:3	Then David and Jonathan formed a pact. For he loved him like his own soul.
1 Samuel 18:4	And Jonathan took off the coat that he was wearing, and he gave it to David, with the rest of his garments, even to his sword and bow, and even his belt.
1 Samuel 18:5	Also, David went out to do everything whatsoever that Saul sent him to do, and he conducted himself prudently. And Saul set him over men of war. And he was acceptable in the eyes of the entire people, and most of all in the sight of the servants of Saul.
1 Samuel 18:6	Now when David returned, after he had struck down the Philistine, the women went out, from all the cities of Israel, leading the singing and dancing, rejoicing with timbrels and bells, so as to meet king Saul.
1 Samuel 18:7	And the women sang, as they played, saying, “Saul has struck down a thousand, and David ten thousand.”
1 Samuel 18:8	Then Saul became exceedingly angry, and this word was displeasing in his eyes. And he said: “They have given David ten thousand, and to me they gave only one thousand. What is left for him, except the kingdom itself?”
1 Samuel 18:9	Therefore, Saul did not regard David with a good eye, from that day and thereafter.
1 Samuel 18:10	Then, on the next day, the evil spirit from God assailed Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of his house. And David played with his hand, just as at every other time. And Saul held a lance in his hand.
1 Samuel 18:11	And he threw it, thinking that he would be able to fix David to the wall. And David stepped aside twice, from before his face.
1 Samuel 18:12	And Saul feared David, because the Lord was with him, but he had withdrawn from Saul.
1 Samuel 18:13	Therefore, Saul sent him away from himself, and he made him tribune over one thousand men. And he entered and departed in the sight of the people.
1 Samuel 18:14	Also, David acted prudently in all his ways, and the Lord was with him.
1 Samuel 18:15	And so, Saul saw that he was exceedingly prudent, and he began to be wary of him.
1 Samuel 18:16	But all of Israel and Judah loved David. For he entered and departed before them.
1 Samuel 18:17	And Saul said to David: “Behold, my elder daughter, Merab. I will give her to you as wife. Only be a valiant man, and fight the wars of the Lord.” Now Saul was considering within himself, saying, “Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hands of the Philistines be upon him.”
1 Samuel 18:18	Then David said to Saul, “Who am I, and what is my life, and what is my father’s kinship within Israel, that I should be the son-in-law of the king?”
1 Samuel 18:19	Then it happened that, at the time when Merab, the daughter of Saul, was to be given to David, she was given to Adriel, the Meholathite, as wife.
1 Samuel 18:20	Now Michal, the other daughter of Saul, loved David. And this was reported to Saul, and it pleased him.
1 Samuel 18:21	And Saul said, “I will give her to him, so that she may be a stumbling block to him, and so that the hand of the Philistines may be upon him.” And Saul said to David, “In two things, you shall be my son-in-law today.”
1 Samuel 18:22	And Saul commanded his servants to speak to David privately, saying: “Behold, you are pleasing to the king, and all his servants love you. Now therefore, be the son-in-law of the king.”
1 Samuel 18:23	And the servants of Saul spoke all these words to the ears of David. And David said: “Does it seem a small matter to you, to be the son-in-law of the king? I am but a poor and unimportant man.”
1 Samuel 18:24	And the servants reported to Saul, saying, “David has spoken words in this manner.”
1 Samuel 18:25	Then Saul said, “Speak in this way to David: The king does not have need of any dowry, but only one hundred foreskins from the Philistine men, so that he may be vindicated from the enemies of the king.” So did Saul think to deliver David into the hands of the Philistines.
1 Samuel 18:26	And when his servants had repeated to David the words that Saul had spoken, the word was pleasing in the eyes of David, so that he would become son-in-law of the king.
1 Samuel 18:27	And after a few days, David, rising up, went with the men who were under him, and he struck down two hundred men of the Philistines. And he brought their foreskins, and he counted them out for the king, so that he might be his son-in-law. And so, Saul gave to him his daughter Michal as wife.
1 Samuel 18:28	And Saul saw and understood that the Lord was with David. And Michal, the daughter of Saul, loved him.
1 Samuel 18:29	And Saul began to fear David all the more. And Saul became the enemy of David, every day.
1 Samuel 18:30	And the leaders of the Philistines departed. And from the beginning of their departure, David conducted himself more prudently than all the servants of Saul, and his name became exceedingly celebrated.
1 Samuel 19:1	Now Saul spoke to his son Jonathan, and to all his servants, so that they would kill David. But Jonathan, the son of Saul, loved David very much.
1 Samuel 19:2	And Jonathan revealed it to David, saying: “Saul, my father, is seeking to kill you. Because of this, I ask you, take care for yourself in the morning. And you should conceal yourself and remain in hiding.
1 Samuel 19:3	Then I, going out, will be standing beside my father in the field, where you will be. And I will speak about you to my father. And whatever I see, I will report to you.”
1 Samuel 19:4	Then Jonathan spoke good things about David to his father Saul. And he said to him: “You should not sin, O king, against your servant David. For he has not sinned against you, and his works toward you are very good.
1 Samuel 19:5	And he took his life in his own hand, and struck down the Philistine. And the Lord wrought a great salvation for all of Israel. You saw it, and you rejoiced. Why then would you sin against innocent blood by killing David, who is without guilt?”
1 Samuel 19:6	And when Saul had heard this, being pleased by the voice of Jonathan, he swore, “As the Lord lives, he shall not be killed.”
1 Samuel 19:7	And so Jonathan called David, and he revealed to him all of these words. And Jonathan led in David to Saul, and he was before him, just as he had been yesterday and the day before.
1 Samuel 19:8	Then the war was stirred up again. And David went out and fought against the Philistines. And he struck them down with a great slaughter. And they fled from his face.
1 Samuel 19:9	And the evil spirit from the Lord came to Saul, who was sitting in his house and holding a lance. And David was playing music with his hand.
1 Samuel 19:10	And Saul attempted to fix David to the wall with the lance. But David turned aside from the face of Saul. And the lance failed to wound him, and it became fixed in the wall. And David fled, and so he was saved that night.
1 Samuel 19:11	Therefore, Saul sent his guards to David’s house, so that they might watch for him, and so that he might be killed in the morning. And after Michal, his wife, had reported this to David, saying, “Unless you save yourself this night, tomorrow you will die,”
1 Samuel 19:12	she lowered him down through a window. Then he fled and went away, and he was saved.
1 Samuel 19:13	Then Michal took a statue, and placed it on the bed. And she placed the pelt of a goat for the hair at its head. And she covered it with clothes.
1 Samuel 19:14	And Saul sent attendants to seize David. And it was answered that he was sick.
1 Samuel 19:15	And again, Saul sent messengers to see David, saying, “Bring him to me on the bed, so that he may be killed.”
1 Samuel 19:16	And when the messengers had arrived, they found a likeness on the bed, with a goat pelt at its head.
1 Samuel 19:17	And Saul said to Michal, “Why have you deceived me in this way, and released my enemy, so that he may flee?” And Michal responded to Saul, “Because he said to me, ‘Release me, otherwise I will kill you.’ ”
1 Samuel 19:18	Now David was saved by fleeing, and he went to Samuel in Ramah. And he reported to him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went away and stayed at Naioth.
1 Samuel 19:19	Then it was reported to Saul by some, saying, “Behold, David is at Naioth, in Ramah.”
1 Samuel 19:20	Therefore, Saul sent officers to seize David. And when they had seen a company of prophets prophesying, with Samuel presiding over them, the Spirit of the Lord also came to them, and they also began to prophesy.
1 Samuel 19:21	And when this was reported to Saul, he sent other messengers. But they also prophesied. And again, Saul sent messengers a third time. And they also prophesied. And Saul, being exceedingly angry,
1 Samuel 19:22	also went to Ramah himself. And he went as far as the great cistern, which is in Socoh. And he inquired and said, “In which place are Samuel and David?” And it was told to him, “Behold, they are at Naioth, in Ramah.”
1 Samuel 19:23	And he went to Naioth, in Ramah, and the Spirit of the Lord came to him also. And he continued on, walking and prophesying, until he arrived at Naioth, in Ramah.
1 Samuel 19:24	And he also took off his garments, and he prophesied with the others before Samuel. And he fell down naked, throughout that day and night. From this, too, is derived the proverb, “Could Saul also be among the prophets?”
1 Samuel 20:1	Then David fled from Naioth, which is in Ramah, and he went and said before Jonathan: “What have I done? What is my iniquity, or what is my sin, against your father, so that he would seek my life?”
1 Samuel 20:2	And he said to him: “May this not be! You shall not die. For my father will not do anything, great or small, without first revealing it to me. Therefore, has my father concealed this word solely from me? By no means shall this be!”
1 Samuel 20:3	And he swore again to David. And David said: “Your father certainly knows that I have found favor in your sight, and so he will say, ‘Let Jonathan not know this, lest he be saddened.’ So truly, as the Lord lives, and as your soul lives, there is only one step (if I may say it) separating me from death.”
1 Samuel 20:4	And Jonathan said to David, “Whatever your soul will tell me, I will do for you.”
1 Samuel 20:5	Then David said to Jonathan: “Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I am accustomed to sit in a seat beside the king to eat. Therefore, permit me that I may be hidden in the field, until the evening of the third day.
1 Samuel 20:6	If your father, looking around, will seek me, you shall respond to him: ‘David asked me if he may hurry to Bethlehem, his own city. For there are solemn sacrifices in that place for all of his tribe together.’
1 Samuel 20:7	If he will say, ‘It is well,’ then your servant will have peace. But if he will be angry, know that his malice has reached its height.
1 Samuel 20:8	Therefore, show mercy to your servant. For you have brought me, your servant, into a covenant of the Lord with you. But if there is any iniquity in me, you may kill me, and you shall not lead me in to your father.”
1 Samuel 20:9	And Jonathan said: “May this be far from you. For certainly, if I ever realized that any wickedness was determined by my father against you, I would not be able to do anything other than report it to you.”
1 Samuel 20:10	And David responded to Jonathan, “Who will repeat it to me, if your father may perhaps answer you harshly about me?”
1 Samuel 20:11	And Jonathan said to David, “Come, and let us go out into the field.” And when they both had gone out into the field,
1 Samuel 20:12	Jonathan said before David: “O Lord, God of Israel, if I will discover a decision by my father, tomorrow, or the day after, and if there will be anything good concerning David, and yet I do not immediately send to you and make it known to you,
1 Samuel 20:13	may the Lord do these things to Jonathan, and may he add these other things. But if my father will have persevered in malice against you, I will reveal it to your ear, and I will send you away, so that you may go in peace, and so that the Lord may be with you, just as he was with my father.
1 Samuel 20:14	And if I live, you shall show the mercy of the Lord to me. Yet truly, if I die,
1 Samuel 20:15	you shall not take away your mercy from my house, even forever, when the Lord will have rooted out the enemies of David, each and every one of them, from the earth. May he take Jonathan from his house, and may the Lord require it from the hands of the enemies of David.”
1 Samuel 20:16	Therefore, Jonathan formed a covenant with the house of David. And the Lord required it from the hands of the enemies of David.
1 Samuel 20:17	And Jonathan continued to swear to David, because he loved him. For he loved him like his own soul.
1 Samuel 20:18	And Jonathan said to him: “Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be sought.
1 Samuel 20:19	For your seat will be empty until the day after tomorrow. Therefore, you shall descend quickly, and you shall go to the place where you are to be hidden, on a day when it is lawful to work, and you shall remain beside the stone that is called Ezel.
1 Samuel 20:20	And I will shoot three arrows near it, and I will cast them as if I were practicing for myself toward a mark.
1 Samuel 20:21	Also, I will send a boy, saying to him, ‘Go and bring the arrows to me.’
1 Samuel 20:22	If I will say to the boy, ‘Behold, the arrows are before you, take them up,’ you shall approach before me, because there is peace for you, and there is nothing evil, as the Lord lives. But if I will have spoken to the boy in this way, ‘Behold, the arrows are away from you,’ then you shall go away in peace, for the Lord has released you.
1 Samuel 20:23	Now about the word that you and I have spoken, may the Lord be between you and me, even forever.”
1 Samuel 20:24	Therefore, David was hidden in the field. And the new moon came, and the king sat down to eat bread.
1 Samuel 20:25	And when the king had sat down on his chair, (according to custom) which was beside the wall, Jonathan rose up, and Abner sat beside Saul, and David’s place appeared empty.
1 Samuel 20:26	And Saul did not say anything on that day. For he was thinking that perhaps something happened to him, so that he was not clean, or not purified.
1 Samuel 20:27	And when the second day after the new moon had begun to dawn, David’s place again appeared empty. And Saul said to Jonathan, his son, “Why has the son of Jesse not arrived to eat, neither yesterday, nor today?”
1 Samuel 20:28	And Jonathan responded to Saul, “He petitioned me earnestly that he might go to Bethlehem,
1 Samuel 20:29	and he said: ‘Permit me. For there is a solemn sacrifice in the city. One of my brothers has summoned me. Now therefore, if I have found favor in your eyes, I will go quickly, and I will see my brothers.’ For this reason, he has not come to the table of the king.”
1 Samuel 20:30	Then Saul, becoming angry against Jonathan, said to him: “You son of a woman wantonly seizing a man! Could I be ignorant that you love the son of Jesse, to your own shame, and to the shame of your disgraceful mother?
1 Samuel 20:31	For all the days that the son of Jesse moves upon earth, neither you, nor your kingdom, will be secure. And so, send and bring him to me, here and now. For he is a son of death.”
1 Samuel 20:32	Then Jonathan, answering his father Saul, said: “Why should he die? What has he done?”
1 Samuel 20:33	And Saul picked up a lance, so that he might strike him. And Jonathan understood that it had been decided by his father that David be put to death.
1 Samuel 20:34	Therefore, Jonathan rose up from the table in a rage of anger. And he did not eat bread on the second day after the new moon. For he was saddened over David, because his father had confounded him.
1 Samuel 20:35	And when the morning had begun to dawn, Jonathan went into the field according to the agreement with David, and a young boy was with him.
1 Samuel 20:36	And he said to his boy, “Go, and bring to me the arrows that I shoot.” And when the boy had run, he shot another arrow away from the boy.
1 Samuel 20:37	And so, the boy went to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot. And Jonathan cried out, from behind the back of boy, and said: “Behold, the arrow is there, farther away from you.”
1 Samuel 20:38	And Jonathan cried out again, from behind the back of the boy, saying, “Go quickly! Do not stand still!” Then Jonathan’s boy collected the arrows, and he brought them to his lord.
1 Samuel 20:39	And he did not understand at all what was happening. For only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
1 Samuel 20:40	Then Jonathan gave his weapons to the boy, and he said to him, “Go, and carry them into the city.”
1 Samuel 20:41	And when the boy had gone away, David rose up from his place, which turned toward the south, and falling prone on the ground, he reverenced three times. And kissing one another, they wept together, but David more so.
1 Samuel 20:42	Then Jonathan said to David: “Go in peace. And let us both keep all that we have ever sworn in the name of the Lord, saying, ‘May the Lord be between me and you, and between my offspring and your offspring, even forever.’ ” And David rose up and went away. But Jonathan entered into the city.
1 Samuel 21:1	Then David went into Nob, to the priest Ahimelech. And Ahimelech was astonished that David had arrived. And he said to him, “Why are you alone, and no one is with you?”
1 Samuel 21:2	And David said to the priest Ahimelech: “The king has instructed to me a word, and he said: ‘Let no one know the matter about which you have been sent by me, and what type of instructions I have given to you. For I have also summoned servants to one and another place.’
1 Samuel 21:3	Now therefore, if you have anything at hand, even five loaves of bread, or whatever you may find, give it to me.”
1 Samuel 21:4	And the priest, responding to David, said to him: “I have no common bread at hand, but only holy bread. Are the young men clean, especially from women?”
1 Samuel 21:5	And David responded to the priest, and said to him: “Indeed, as concerns being with women, we have abstained since yesterday and the day before, when we departed, and so the vessels of the young men have been holy. And although, this journey has been defiled, it will also be sanctified today as concerns the vessels.”
1 Samuel 21:6	Therefore, the priest gave to him sanctified bread. For there was no bread there, but only the bread of the Presence, which had been taken away from before the face of the Lord, so that fresh loaves might be set up.
1 Samuel 21:7	Now a certain man among the servants of Saul was there on that day, inside the tabernacle of the Lord. And his name was Doeg, an Edomite, the most powerful among the shepherds of Saul.
1 Samuel 21:8	Then David said to Ahimelech: “Do you have, here at hand, a spear or a sword? For I did not take my own sword, or my own weapons with me. For the word of the king was urgent.”
1 Samuel 21:9	And the priest said: “Behold, here is the sword of Goliath, the Philistine, whom you struck down in the Valley of Terebinth. It is wrapped up in a cloak behind the ephod. If you wish to take this, take it. For there is nothing else here except this.” And David said, “There is nothing else like this, so give it to me.”
1 Samuel 21:10	And so, David rose up, and he fled on that day from the face of Saul. And he went to Achish, the king of Gath.
1 Samuel 21:11	And the servants of Achish, when they had seen David, said to him: “Is this not David, the king of the land? Were they not singing about him, while dancing, saying, ‘Saul has struck down a thousand, and David ten thousand?’ ”
1 Samuel 21:12	Then David took these words to his heart, and he became exceedingly afraid before the face of Achish, the king of Gath.
1 Samuel 21:13	And he altered his mouth before them, and he slipped down between their hands. And he stumbled against the doors of the gate. And his spit flowed down his beard.
1 Samuel 21:14	And Achish said to his servants: “You saw that the man is insane. Why did you bring him to me?
1 Samuel 21:15	Or do we have need of those who are mad, so that you would bring in this one, to behave madly in my presence? How did this man get into my house?”
1 Samuel 22:1	Then David went away from there, and he fled to the cave of Adullam. And when his brothers and all of his father’s house had heard of it, they descended to him there.
1 Samuel 22:2	And all those left in distress, or oppressed by debt to strangers, or bitter in soul, gathered themselves to him. And he became their leader, and about four hundred men were with him.
1 Samuel 22:3	And David set out from there to Mizpah, which is of Moab. And he said to the king of Moab, “I beg you, let my father and my mother remain with you, until I know what God will do for me.”
1 Samuel 22:4	And he left them before the face of the king of Moab. And they stayed with him for all the days that David was in the stronghold.
1 Samuel 22:5	And the prophet Gad said to David: “Do not choose to stay in the stronghold. Set out and go into the land of Judah.” And so, David set out, and he went into the forest of Hereth.
1 Samuel 22:6	And Saul heard that David, and the men who were with him, had been seen. Now while Saul was staying in Gibeah, and while he was in the forest that is in Ramah, holding a spear in his hand, with all his servants standing around him,
1 Samuel 22:7	he said to his servants who were assisting him: “Listen now, you sons of Benjamin! Will the son of Jesse give to all of you fields and vineyards, and will he make all of you tribunes or centurions,
1 Samuel 22:8	so that you would all conspire against me, and so that there is no one to inform me, especially when even my son has formed a pact with the son of Jesse? There is no one among you who grieves for my situation, or who would report to me. For my son has raised up my servant against me, seeking to betray me, even to this day.”
1 Samuel 22:9	Then Doeg, the Edomite, who was standing near, and who was first among the servants of Saul, responding, said: “I saw the son of Jesse, in Nob, with Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, the priest.
1 Samuel 22:10	And he consulted the Lord for him, and he gave him food. Moreover, he gave him the sword of Goliath, the Philistine.”
1 Samuel 22:11	Then the king sent to summon Ahimelech, the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all of his father’s house, the priests who were in Nob, and they all came before the king.
1 Samuel 22:12	And Saul said to Ahimelech, “Listen, son of Ahitub.” He responded, “Here I am, lord.”
1 Samuel 22:13	And Saul said to him: “Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Jesse? For you gave him bread and a sword, and you consulted the Lord for him, so that he might rise up against me, continuing as a traitor even to this day.”
1 Samuel 22:14	And responding to the king, Ahimelech said: “But who among all your servants is as faithful as David? And he is the son-in-law of the king, and he goes forth at your order, and he is a glory within your house.
1 Samuel 22:15	Did I begin to consult the Lord for him today? May this be far from me! Let not the king suspect this kind of thing against his servant, nor against anyone in all my father’s house. For your servant did not know anything about this matter, either small or great.”
1 Samuel 22:16	And the king said, “You shall die a death, Ahimelech, you and all your father’s house!”
1 Samuel 22:17	And the king said to the emissaries who were standing around him: “You shall turn, and put to death the priests of the Lord. For their hand is with David. They knew that he had fled, and they did not reveal it to me.” But the servants of the king were not willing to extend their hands against the priests of the Lord.
1 Samuel 22:18	And the king said to Doeg, “You shall turn and rush against the priests.” And Doeg, the Edomite, turned and rushed against the priests. And he massacred, on that day, eighty-five men, vested with the linen ephod.
1 Samuel 22:19	Then he struck Nob, the city of the priests, with the edge of the sword; he struck down men and women, little ones and infants, as well as ox and donkey and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
1 Samuel 22:20	But one of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaping, fled to David.
1 Samuel 22:21	And he reported to him that Saul had slain the priests of the Lord.
1 Samuel 22:22	And David said to Abiathar: “I knew, on that day when Doeg, the Edomite was there, that without doubt he would report it to Saul. I am guilty of all the souls of your father’s house.
1 Samuel 22:23	You should remain with me. Do not be afraid. For he who seeks my life, seeks your life also, but with me you shall be saved.”
1 Samuel 23:1	And they reported to David, saying, “Behold, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah, and they are plundering the grain stores.”
1 Samuel 23:2	Therefore, David consulted the Lord, saying, “Shall I go and strike down these Philistines?” And the Lord said to David, “Go, and you shall strike down the Philistines, and you shall save Keilah.”
1 Samuel 23:3	And the men who were with David said to him, “Behold, we continue in fear here in Judea; how much more so, if we go into Keilah against the troops of the Philistines?”
1 Samuel 23:4	Therefore, David consulted the Lord again. And responding, he said to him: “Rise up, and go into Keilah. For I will deliver the Philistines into your hand.”
1 Samuel 23:5	Therefore, David and his men went into Keilah. And they fought against the Philistines, and they took away their cattle, and they struck them with a great slaughter. And David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
1 Samuel 23:6	And in that time, when Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, was in exile with David, he had descended to Keilah, having an ephod with him.
1 Samuel 23:7	Then it was reported to Saul that David had gone to Keilah. And Saul said: “The Lord has delivered him into my hands. For he is enclosed, having entered into a city which has gates and bars.”
1 Samuel 23:8	And Saul instructed all the people to descend in order to fight against Keilah, and to besiege David and his men.
1 Samuel 23:9	And when David had realized that Saul had secretly prepared evil against him, he said to Abiathar, the priest, “Bring the ephod.”
1 Samuel 23:10	And David said: “O Lord God of Israel, your servant has heard a report that Saul is planning to go to Keilah, so that he may overturn the city because of me.
1 Samuel 23:11	Will the men of Keilah deliver me into his hands? And will Saul descend, just as your servant has heard? O Lord God of Israel, reveal to your servant.” And the Lord said, “He will descend.”
1 Samuel 23:12	And David said, “Will the men of Keilah deliver me, and the men who are with me, into the hands of Saul?” And the Lord said, “They will deliver you.”
1 Samuel 23:13	Therefore, David, and his men of about six hundred, rose up, and, departing from Keilah, they wandered here and there, aimlessly. And it was reported to Saul that David had fled from Keilah, and was saved. For this reason, he chose not to go out.
1 Samuel 23:14	Then David stayed in the desert, in very strong places. And he stayed on a mount in the wilderness of Ziph, on a shady mount. Nevertheless, Saul was seeking him every day. But the Lord did not deliver him into his hands.
1 Samuel 23:15	And David saw that Saul had gone out, so that he might seek his life. Now David was in the desert of Ziph, in the woods.
1 Samuel 23:16	And Jonathan, the son of Saul, rose up and went to David in the woods, and he strengthened his hands in God. And he said to him:
1 Samuel 23:17	“Do not be afraid. For the hand of my father, Saul, will not find you. And you shall reign over Israel. And I will be second to you. And even my father knows this.”
1 Samuel 23:18	Therefore, they both struck a pact before the Lord. And David stayed in the woods. But Jonathan returned to his house.
1 Samuel 23:19	Then the Ziphites ascended to Saul at Gibeah, saying: “Behold, is not David hidden with us in very secure places in the woods on the hill of Hachilah, which is to the right of the desert?
1 Samuel 23:20	Now therefore, if your soul has desired to descend, then descend. Then it will be for us to deliver him into the hands of the king.”
1 Samuel 23:21	And Saul said: “You have been blessed by the Lord. For you have grieved for my situation.
1 Samuel 23:22	Therefore, I beg you, go forth, and prepare diligently, and act carefully. And consider the place where his foot may be, and who may have seen him there. For he thinks, concerning me, that I craftily plan treachery against him.
1 Samuel 23:23	Consider and seek out all his hiding places, in which he may be concealed. And return to me with certainty about the matter, so that I may go with you. But if he would even press himself into the earth, I will search him out, amid all the thousands of Judah.”
1 Samuel 23:24	And rising up, they went to Ziph before Saul. But David and his men were in the desert of Maon, in the plain to the right of Jeshimon.
1 Samuel 23:25	Then Saul and his allies went to seek him. And this was reported to David. And immediately, he descended to the rock, and he moved about in the desert of Maon. And when Saul had heard of it, he pursued David in the desert of Maon.
1 Samuel 23:26	And Saul went to one side of the mountain. But David and his men were on the other side of the mountain. Then David was despairing that he would be able to escape from the face of Saul. And Saul and his men enclosed David and his men in the manner of a crown, so that they might capture them.
1 Samuel 23:27	And a messenger came to Saul, saying, “Hurry and come, because the Philistines have poured themselves out upon the land.”
1 Samuel 23:28	Therefore, Saul turned back, ceasing in the pursuit of David, and he traveled to meet the Philistines. For this reason, they called that place, the Rock of Division.
1 Samuel 23:29	 Then David ascended from there, and he lived in very secure places in Engedi.
1 Samuel 24:1	 And when Saul had returned after pursuing the Philistines, they reported to him, saying, “Behold, David is in the desert of Engedi.”
1 Samuel 24:2	 Therefore, Saul, taking three thousand elect men from all of Israel, traveled in order to search for David and his men, even upon the most broken rocks, which are passable only to mountain goats.
1 Samuel 24:3	 And he arrived at the sheepfolds, which presented themselves along the way. And a cave was in that place, which Saul entered, so that he might ease his bowels. But David and his men were hiding in the interior part of the cave.
1 Samuel 24:4	 And the servants of David said to him: “Behold the day, about which the Lord said to you, ‘I will deliver your enemy to you, so that you may do to him as it will be pleasing in your eyes.’ ” Then David rose up, and he quietly cut off the edge of Saul’s cloak.
1 Samuel 24:5	 After this, his own heart struck David, because he had cut off the edge of Saul’s cloak.
1 Samuel 24:6	 And he said to his men: “May the Lord be gracious to me, lest I do this thing to my lord, the Christ of the Lord, so that I lay my hand upon him. For he is the Christ of the Lord.”
1 Samuel 24:7	 And David restrained his men with his words, and he would not permit them to rise up against Saul. And so Saul, going out of the cave, continued to undertake his journey.
1 Samuel 24:8	 Then David also rose up after him. And departing from the cave, he cried out behind the back of Saul, saying: “My lord, the king!” And Saul looked behind him. And David, bowing himself face down to the ground, reverenced.
1 Samuel 24:9	 And he said to Saul: “Why do you listen to the words of men who say: ‘David seeks evil against you?’
1 Samuel 24:10	 Behold, this day your eyes have seen that the Lord has delivered you into my hand, in the cave. And I thought that I might kill you. But my eye has spared you. For I said: I will not extend my hand against my lord, for he is the Christ of the Lord.
1 Samuel 24:11	 Moreover, see and know, O my father, the edge of your cloak in my hand. For though I cut off the top of your cloak, I was not willing to extend my hand against you. Turn your soul and see that there is no evil in my hand, nor any iniquity or sin against you. Yet you lie in wait for my life, so that you may take it away.
1 Samuel 24:12	 May the Lord judge between me and you. And may the Lord vindicate me from you. But my hand will not be against you.
1 Samuel 24:13	 So too, it is said in the ancient proverb, ‘From the impious, impiety will go forth.’ Therefore, my hand will not be upon you.
1 Samuel 24:14	 Whom are you pursuing, O king of Israel? Whom are you pursuing? You are pursuing a dead dog, a single flea.
1 Samuel 24:15	 May the Lord be the judge, and may he judge between me and you. And may he see and judge my case, and rescue me from your hand.”
1 Samuel 24:16	 And when David had completed speaking words in this way to Saul, Saul said, “Could this be your voice, my son David?” And Saul lifted up his voice, and he wept.
1 Samuel 24:17	 And he said to David: “You are more just than I am. For you have distributed good to me, but I have repaid evil to you.
1 Samuel 24:18	 And you have revealed this day the good that you have done for me: how the Lord delivered me into your hand, but you did not kill me.
1 Samuel 24:19	 For who, when he will have found his enemy, will release him along a good path? So may the Lord repay you for this good turn, because you have acted on my behalf this day.
1 Samuel 24:20	 And now I know certainly that you shall be king, and you shall have the kingdom of Israel in your hand.
1 Samuel 24:21	 Swear to me in the Lord that you will not take away my offspring after me, nor take away my name from the house of my father.”
1 Samuel 24:22	 And David swore to Saul. Therefore, Saul went away to his own house. And David and his men ascended to places that were more secure.
1 Samuel 25:1	Then Samuel died, and all of Israel gathered together, and they mourned him. And they buried him at his house in Ramah. And David, rising up, descended to the desert of Paran.
1 Samuel 25:2	Now there was a certain man in the wilderness of Maon, and his possessions were at Carmel. And this man was exceedingly great. And three thousand sheep, and one thousand goats were his. And it happened that he was shearing his sheep at Carmel.
1 Samuel 25:3	Now the name of this man was Nabal. And the name of his wife was Abigail. And she was a very prudent and beautiful woman. But her husband was hard-hearted, and very wicked, and malicious. And he was of the stock of Caleb.
1 Samuel 25:4	Therefore, when David, in the desert, had heard that Nabal was shearing his sheep,
1 Samuel 25:5	he sent ten young men, and he said to them: “Ascend to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and greet him in my name peacefully.
1 Samuel 25:6	And you shall say: ‘Peace be to my brothers and to you, and peace to your house, and peace to whatever you have.
1 Samuel 25:7	I have heard that your shepherds, who were with us in the desert, were shearing. We have never troubled them, nor was anything from the flock missing to them at any time, during the entire time that they have been with us in Carmel.
1 Samuel 25:8	Question your servants, and they will tell you. Now therefore, may your servants find favor in your eyes. For we have arrived on a good day. Whatever your hand will find, give it to your servants and to your son David.’ ”
1 Samuel 25:9	And when the servants of David had arrived, they spoke to Nabal all these words in the name of David. And then they were silent.
1 Samuel 25:10	But Nabal, responding to the servants of David, said: “Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? Today, servants who are fleeing from their lords are increasing.
1 Samuel 25:11	Therefore, shall I take my bread, and my water, and the meat of the cattle that I have slain for my shearers, and give it to men, when I do not know where they are from?”
1 Samuel 25:12	And so the servants of David traveled back along their way. And returning, they went and reported to him all the words that he had said.
1 Samuel 25:13	Then David said to his servants, “Let each one gird his sword.” And each one girded his sword. And David also girded his sword. And about four hundred men followed David. But two hundred remained behind with the supplies.
1 Samuel 25:14	Then it was reported to Abigail, the wife of Nabal, by one of his servants, saying: “Behold, David has sent messengers from the desert, so that they might speak kindly to our lord. But he turned them away.
1 Samuel 25:15	These men were good enough to us, and were not troublesome. Neither did we ever lose anything, during the entire time that we conversed with them in the desert.
1 Samuel 25:16	They were a wall to us, as much in the night as in the day, during all the days that we were with them, pasturing the sheep.
1 Samuel 25:17	For this reason, consider and realize what you should do. For evil has been decided against your husband and against your house. And he is a son of Belial, so that no one is able to speak to him.”
1 Samuel 25:18	And so Abigail hurried, and she took two hundred loaves, and two vessels of wine, and five cooked sheep, and five measures of cooked grain, and one hundred clusters of dried grapes, and two hundred masses of dried figs, and she set them upon donkeys.
1 Samuel 25:19	And she said to her servants: “Go before me. Behold, I will follow after your back.” But she did not reveal it to her husband, Nabal.
1 Samuel 25:20	And when she had climbed on a donkey, and was descending to the base of the mountain, David and his men were descending to meet her. And she met them.
1 Samuel 25:21	And David said: “Truly, in vain have I preserved all that was his in the wilderness, so that nothing perished out of all that belonged to him. And he has repaid evil to me for good.
1 Samuel 25:22	May God do these things, by the enemies of David, and may he add these other things, if I leave behind until morning, out of all that belongs to him, anything that urinates against a wall.”
1 Samuel 25:23	Then, when Abigail had seen David, she hurried and descended from the donkey. And she fell upon her face before David, and she reverenced on the ground.
1 Samuel 25:24	And she fell at his feet, and she said: “May this iniquity be upon me, my lord. I beg you, let your handmaid speak to your ears, and listen to the words of your servant.
1 Samuel 25:25	Let not my lord, the king, I beseech you, set his heart upon this iniquitous man, Nabal. For in accord with his name, he is senseless, and foolishness is with him. But I, your handmaid, did not see your servants, my lord, whom you had sent.
1 Samuel 25:26	Now therefore, my lord, as your soul lives, and as the Lord lives, who has kept your hand to yourself, and has prevented you from coming to blood: now, let your enemies be like Nabal, and like all those who are seeking evil for my lord.
1 Samuel 25:27	Because of this, accept this blessing, which your handmaid has brought to you, my lord. And give it to the young men who follow you, my lord.
1 Samuel 25:28	Forgive the iniquity of your handmaid. For the Lord will surely make for you, my lord, a faithful house, because you, my lord, fight the battles of the Lord. Therefore, let no evil be found in you all the days of your life.
1 Samuel 25:29	For if a man, at any time, will rise up, pursuing you and seeking your life, the life of my lord will be preserved, as if in the sheave of the living, with the Lord your God. But the lives of your enemies will be spun around, as if with the force of a whirling sling.
1 Samuel 25:30	Therefore, when the Lord will have done for you, my lord, all the good that he has spoken about you, and when he will have appointed you as leader over Israel,
1 Samuel 25:31	this will not be for you a regret or a scruple of the heart, my lord, that you had shed innocent blood, or had taken revenge for yourself. And when the Lord will have done well for my lord, you shall remember your handmaid.”
1 Samuel 25:32	And David said to Abigail: “Blessed is the Lord, the God of Israel, who sent you this day to meet me. And blessed is your eloquence.
1 Samuel 25:33	And blessed are you, who prevented me today from going to blood, and from taking revenge for myself with my own hand.
1 Samuel 25:34	But instead, as the Lord God of Israel lives, he has prevented me from doing evil to you. But if you had not come quickly to meet me, there would not have been left to Nabal by the morning light, anything that urinates against a wall.”
1 Samuel 25:35	Then David received from her hand all that she had brought to him. And he said to her: “Go in peace to your own house. Behold, I have heeded your voice, and I have honored your face.”
1 Samuel 25:36	Then Abigail went to Nabal. And behold, he was holding a feast for himself in his house, like the feast of a king. And the heart of Nabal was cheerful. For he was greatly inebriated. And she did not reveal a word to him, small or great, until morning.
1 Samuel 25:37	Then, at first light, when Nabal had digested his wine, his wife revealed to him these words, and his heart died within himself, and he became like a stone.
1 Samuel 25:38	And after ten days had passed, the Lord struck Nabal, and he died.
1 Samuel 25:39	And when David had heard that Nabal was dead, he said: “Blessed is the Lord, who has judged the case of my reproach at the hand of Nabal, and who has preserved his servant from evil. And the Lord has repaid the malice of Nabal upon his own head.” Then David sent and he spoke with Abigail, so that he might take her to himself as wife.
1 Samuel 25:40	And David’s servants went to Abigail at Carmel, and they spoke to her, saying, “David has sent us to you, so that he might take you to himself as wife.”
1 Samuel 25:41	And rising up, she reverenced prone on the ground, and she said, “Behold, let your servant be a handmaid, to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.”
1 Samuel 25:42	And Abigail rose up and hurried, and she climbed upon a donkey, and five girls went with her, her attendants. And she followed the messengers of David, and she became his wife.
1 Samuel 25:43	Moreover, David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel. And both of them were his wives.
1 Samuel 25:44	Then Saul gave his daughter Michal, the wife of David, to Palti, the son of Laish, who was from Gallim.
1 Samuel 26:1	And the Ziphites went to Saul at Gibeah, saying: “Behold, David is hidden on the hill of Hachilah, which is opposite the wilderness.”
1 Samuel 26:2	And Saul rose up, and he descended into the desert of Ziph, and with him three thousand elect men of Israel, so that he might seek David in the desert of Ziph.
1 Samuel 26:3	And Saul encamped at Gibeah on Hachilah, which was opposite the wilderness on the way. But David was living in the desert. Then, seeing that Saul had arrived after him in the wilderness,
1 Samuel 26:4	he sent explorers, and he learned that he certainly had arrived in that place.
1 Samuel 26:5	And David rose up secretly, and he went to the place where Saul was. And when he had seen the place where Saul was sleeping, and Abner, the son of Ner, the leader of his military, and Saul sleeping in a tent, and the remainder of the common people all around him,
1 Samuel 26:6	David spoke to Ahimelech, the Hittite, and to Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, saying, “Who will descend with me to Saul in the camp?” And Abishai said, “I will descend with you.”
1 Samuel 26:7	Therefore, David and Abishai went to the people by night, and they found Saul lying down and sleeping in the tent, with his spear fixed in the ground at his head. And Abner and the people were sleeping all around him.
1 Samuel 26:8	And Abishai said to David: “God has enclosed your enemy this day in your hands. Now therefore, I will pierce him with my lance, through to the ground, once, and there will not need to be a second.”
1 Samuel 26:9	And David said to Abishai: “You shall not kill him. For who may extend his hand against the Christ of the Lord, and yet be innocent?”
1 Samuel 26:10	And David said: “As the Lord lives, unless the Lord himself will strike him, or unless his day to die will have arrived, or unless, descending into battle, he will perish,
1 Samuel 26:11	may the Lord be gracious to me, so that I may not extend my hand against the Christ of the Lord. Now therefore, take the spear that is at his head, and the cup of water, and let us go.”
1 Samuel 26:12	And so, David took the spear, and the cup of water that was at Saul’s head, and they went away. And there was no one who saw it, or realized it, or awakened, but they were all sleeping. For a deep sleep from the Lord had fallen over them.
1 Samuel 26:13	And when David had crossed over to the opposite side, and had stood upon the top of the hill far away, so that there was a great interval between them,
1 Samuel 26:14	David cried out to the people, and to Abner, the son of Ner, saying, “Will you not respond, Abner?” And responding, Abner said, “Who are you, that you would cry out and disquiet the king?”
1 Samuel 26:15	And David said to Abner: “Are you not a man? And who else is like you in Israel? Then why have you not guarded your lord the king? For one of the people entered, so that he might kill the king, your lord.
1 Samuel 26:16	This is not good, what you have done. As the Lord lives, you are sons of death, because you have not guarded your lord, the Christ of the Lord. Now therefore, where is the king’s spear, and where is the cup of water that was at his head?”
1 Samuel 26:17	Then Saul recognized the voice of David, and he said, “Is this not your voice, my son David?” And David said, “It is my voice, my lord the king.”
1 Samuel 26:18	And he said: “For what reason has my lord pursued his servant? What have I done? Or what evil is there in my hand?
1 Samuel 26:19	Now therefore, listen, I beg you, my lord the king, to the words of your servant. If the Lord has stirred you up against me, let him make the sacrifice fragrant. But if the sons of men have done so, they are accursed in the sight of the Lord, who has cast me out this day, so that I would not live within the inheritance of the Lord, saying, ‘Go, serve strange gods.’
1 Samuel 26:20	And now, let not my blood be poured out upon the earth before the Lord. For the king of Israel has gone out, so that he might seek a flea, just as the partridge is pursued amid the mountains.”
1 Samuel 26:21	And Saul said: “I have sinned. Return, my son David. For I will never again do evil to you, because my life has been precious in your eyes this day. For it is apparent that I have acted senselessly, and have been ignorant of very many things.”
1 Samuel 26:22	And responding, David said: “Behold, the king’s spear. Let one of the servants of the king cross over and take it.
1 Samuel 26:23	And the Lord will repay each one according to his justice and faith. For the Lord has delivered you this day into my hand, but I was not willing to extend my hand against the Christ of the Lord.
1 Samuel 26:24	And just as your soul has been magnified this day in my eyes, so let my soul be magnified in the eyes of the Lord, and may he free me from all distress.”
1 Samuel 26:25	Then Saul said to David: “You are blessed, my son David. And whatever you may do, it shall certainly succeed.” And David departed on his way. And Saul returned to his place.
1 Samuel 27:1	And David said in his heart: “At some time, I will one day fall into the hands of Saul. Is it not better if I flee, and be saved in the land of the Philistines, so that Saul may despair and cease to seek me in all the parts of Israel? Therefore, I will flee away from his hands.”
1 Samuel 27:2	And David rose up and went away, he and the six hundred men who were with him, to Achish, the son of Maoch, the king of Gath.
1 Samuel 27:3	And David lived with Achish at Gath, he and his men: each man with his household, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam, the Jezreelite, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
1 Samuel 27:4	And it was reported to Saul that David had fled to Gath. And so, he did not continue to seek him.
1 Samuel 27:5	And David said to Achish: “If I have found favor in your eyes, let a place be given to me in one of the cities of this region, so that I may live there. For why should your servant stay in the city of the king with you?”
1 Samuel 27:6	And so, Achish gave Ziklag to him on that day. And for this reason, Ziklag belongs to the kings of Judah, even to this day.
1 Samuel 27:7	Now the number of days that David lived in the region of the Philistines was four months.
1 Samuel 27:8	And David and his men went up and took plunder from Geshuri, and from Girzi, and from the Amalekites. For in the land long ago, these were the inhabitants of the area, going from Shur as far as the land of Egypt.
1 Samuel 27:9	And David struck the entire land. Neither did he leave alive man or woman. And he took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the donkeys, and the camels, and the garments. And he returned and went to Achish.
1 Samuel 27:10	Then Achish said to him, “Whom did you go out against today?” And David responded, “Against the south of Judah, and against the south of Jerahmeel, and against the south of Keni.”
1 Samuel 27:11	Neither man nor woman was left alive by David. Neither did he lead back any of them to Gath, saying, “Lest perhaps they may speak against us.” David did these things. And this was his decision during all the days that he lived in the region of the Philistines.
1 Samuel 27:12	Therefore, Achish trusted David, saying: “He has worked much harm against his people Israel. And so, he will be a servant to me forever.”
1 Samuel 28:1	Now it happened that, in those days, the Philistines gathered together their troops, so that they might be prepared for war against Israel. And Achish said to David, “I know now, certainly, that you will go out with me to war, you and your men.”
1 Samuel 28:2	And David said to Achish, “You know now what your servant will do.” And Achish said to David, “And so, I will appoint you to guard my head for all days.”
1 Samuel 28:3	Now Samuel was dead, and all of Israel mourned for him, and they buried him in Ramah, his city. And Saul took away the magi and soothsayers from the land.
1 Samuel 28:4	And the Philistines gathered together, and they arrived and made camp at Shunem. Then Saul also gathered all of Israel, and he arrived at Gilboa.
1 Samuel 28:5	And Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, and he was afraid, and his heart was exceedingly terrified.
1 Samuel 28:6	And he consulted the Lord. But he did not respond to him, neither by dreams, nor by priests, nor by prophets.
1 Samuel 28:7	And Saul said to his servants, “Seek for me a woman having a divining spirit, and I will go to her, and consult through her.” And his servants said to him, “There is a woman having a divining spirit at Endor.”
1 Samuel 28:8	Therefore, he changed his usual appearance, and he put on other clothes. And he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. And he said to her, “Divine for me, by your divining spirit, and raise up for me whomever I will tell you.”
1 Samuel 28:9	And the woman said to him: “Behold, you know how much Saul has done, and how he has wiped away the magi and soothsayers from the land. Why then do you set a trap for my life, so that it will be put to death?”
1 Samuel 28:10	And Saul swore to her by the Lord, saying, “As the Lord lives, nothing evil will befall you because of this matter.”
1 Samuel 28:11	And the woman said to him, “Whom shall I raise up for you?” And he said, “Raise up for me Samuel.”
1 Samuel 28:12	And when the woman had seen Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice, and she said to Saul: “Why have you afflicted me? For you are Saul!”
1 Samuel 28:13	And the king said to her: “Do not be afraid. What have you seen?” And the woman said to Saul, “I saw gods ascending from the earth.”
1 Samuel 28:14	And he said to her, “What appearance does he have?” And she said, “An old man ascends, and he is clothed in a cloak.” And Saul understood that it was Samuel. And he bowed himself upon his face on the ground, and he reverenced.
1 Samuel 28:15	Then Samuel said to Saul, “Why have you disquieted me, so that I would be raised up?” And Saul said: “I am greatly distressed. For the Philistines fight against me, and God has withdrawn from me, and he is not willing to heed me, neither by the hand of prophets, nor by dreams. Therefore, I have summoned you, so that you would reveal to me what I should do.”
1 Samuel 28:16	And Samuel said, “Why do you question me, though the Lord has withdrawn from you, and has crossed over to your rival?
1 Samuel 28:17	For the Lord will do to you just as he spoke by my hand. And he will tear your kingdom from your hand. And he will give it to your neighbor David.
1 Samuel 28:18	For you did not obey the voice of the Lord, and you did not carry out the wrath of his fury upon Amalek. For this reason, the Lord has done to you what you are enduring this day.
1 Samuel 28:19	And the Lord also will give Israel into the hands of the Philistines, along with you. Then tomorrow you and your sons will be with me. But the Lord will also deliver the camp of Israel into the hands of the Philistines.”
1 Samuel 28:20	And immediately, Saul fell stretched out on the ground. For he was terrified by the words of Samuel. And there was no strength in him. For he had not eaten bread all that day.
1 Samuel 28:21	And so, the woman entered to Saul, (for he was very troubled) and she said to him: “Behold, your handmaid has obeyed your voice, and I have placed my life in my hand. And I have heeded the words which you spoke to me.
1 Samuel 28:22	And so now, I ask you to heed the voice of your handmaid, and let me place before you a morsel of bread, so that, by eating, you may recover strength, and you may be able to undertake the journey.”
1 Samuel 28:23	But he refused, and he said, “I will not eat.” But his servants and the woman urged him, and after some time, heeding their voice, he rose up from the ground, and he sat upon the bed.
1 Samuel 28:24	Now the woman had a fatted calf in the house, and she hurried and killed it. And taking meal, she kneaded it, and she baked unleavened bread.
1 Samuel 28:25	And she set it before Saul and before his servants. And when they had eaten, they rose up, and they walked all through that night.
1 Samuel 29:1	Then all the troops of the Philistines were gathered together at Aphek. But Israel also made camp, above the spring which is in Jezreel.
1 Samuel 29:2	And indeed, the princes of the Philistines advanced by hundreds and by thousands; but David and his men were in the rear with Achish.
1 Samuel 29:3	And the leaders of the Philistines said to Achish, “What do these Hebrews intend to do?” And Achish said to the leaders of the Philistines: “Could you be ignorant about David, who was the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, and who has been with me for many days, even years, and I have not found within him anything, from the day that he fled to me, even to this day?”
1 Samuel 29:4	Then the leaders of the Philistines became angry against him, and they said to him: “Let this man return, and let him settle in his place, which you appointed for him. But let him not descend with us to battle, lest he become an adversary to us when we begin to fight. For in what other way will he be able to please his lord, except with our heads?
1 Samuel 29:5	Is not this the David, about whom they were singing, while dancing, saying: ‘Saul struck down his thousands, but David his ten thousands?’ ”
1 Samuel 29:6	Therefore, Achish called David, and he said to him: “As the Lord lives, you are good and righteous in my sight, even in your departure and your return with me in the military camp. And I have not found anything evil in you, from the day that you came to me, even to this day. But you are not pleasing to the princes.
1 Samuel 29:7	Therefore, return, and go in peace, so that you do not offend the eyes of the princes of the Philistines.”
1 Samuel 29:8	And David said to Achish, “But what have I done, or what have you found in me, your servant, from the day that I was in your sight to this day, so that I may not go out and fight against the enemies of my lord, the king?”
1 Samuel 29:9	And in response, Achish said to David: “I know that you are good in my sight, like an angel of God. But the leaders of the Philistines have said: ‘He shall not go up with us to the battle.’
1 Samuel 29:10	And so, rise up in the morning, you and the servants of your lord who came with you. And when you have risen up in the night, as it begins to be light, go forth.”
1 Samuel 29:11	And so David rose up in the night, he and his men, so that they might set out in the morning. And they returned to the land of the Philistines. But the Philistines ascended to Jezreel.
1 Samuel 30:1	And when David and his men had arrived at Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekites had made an attack on the south side against Ziklag. And they had struck Ziklag, and burned it with fire.
1 Samuel 30:2	And they had led the women in it away as captives, from the small to the great. And they had not killed anyone, but they led them away with them. And then they traveled on their journey.
1 Samuel 30:3	Therefore, when David and his men had arrived at the city, and had found it burned with fire, and that their wives and their sons and daughters had been led away as captives,
1 Samuel 30:4	David and the people who were with him lifted up their voices. And they mourned until the tears in them failed.
1 Samuel 30:5	For indeed, the two wives of David also had been led away as captives: Ahinoam, the Jezreelite, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
1 Samuel 30:6	And David was greatly saddened. And the people were willing to stone him, because the soul of every man was bitter over his sons and daughters. But David was strengthened by the Lord his God.
1 Samuel 30:7	And he said to the priest Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, “Bring the ephod to me.” And Abiathar brought the ephod to David.
1 Samuel 30:8	And David consulted the Lord, saying, “Shall I pursue these robbers, and will I overtake them, or not?” And the Lord said to him: “Pursue. For without doubt, you will overtake them and find the prey.”
1 Samuel 30:9	Therefore, David went away, he and the six hundred men who were with him, and they arrived as far as the torrent Besor. And certain ones, being weary, stayed there.
1 Samuel 30:10	But David pursued, he and four hundred men. For two hundred stayed, who, being weary, were not able to cross the torrent Besor.
1 Samuel 30:11	And they found an Egyptian man in the field, and they led him to David. And they gave him bread, so that he might eat, and water, so that he might drink,
1 Samuel 30:12	and also a section of a mass of dried figs, and two clusters of dried grapes. And when he had eaten, his spirit returned, and he was refreshed. For he had not eaten bread, nor drank water, for three days and three nights.
1 Samuel 30:13	And so David said to him: “To whom do you belong? Or where are you from? And where are you going?” And he said: “I am a young man of Egypt, the servant of an Amalekite man. But my lord abandoned me, because I began to be sick the day before yesterday.
1 Samuel 30:14	For indeed, we broke forth to the southern side of Cherethi, and against Judah, and to the south of Caleb, and we burned Ziklag with fire.”
1 Samuel 30:15	And David said to him, “Are you able to lead me to this battle line?” And he said, “Swear to me by God that you will not kill me, and that you will not deliver me into the hands of my lord, and I will lead you to this battle line.” And David swore to him.
1 Samuel 30:16	And when he had led him, behold, they were stretched out on the face of the land everywhere, eating and drinking and celebrating, as if it were a feast day, because of all the prey and spoils that they had taken from the land of the Philistines, and from the land of Judah.
1 Samuel 30:17	And David struck them down from evening until the evening of the next day. And no one among them escaped, except four hundred youths, who had climbed on camels and fled.
1 Samuel 30:18	Therefore, David rescued all that the Amalekites had taken, and he rescued his two wives.
1 Samuel 30:19	And nothing was missing, from small even to great, among the sons and daughters, and among the spoils, and among everything whatsoever that they had seized. David returned it all.
1 Samuel 30:20	And he took all the flocks and the herds, and he drove them before his face. And they said, “This is the prey of David.”
1 Samuel 30:21	Then David arrived at the two hundred men, who, being weary, had stayed, for they had not been able to follow David, and he had ordered them to remain at the torrent Besor. And they went out to meet David, and the people who were with him. Then David, drawing near to the people, greeted them peacefully.
1 Samuel 30:22	And all the wicked and iniquitous men, out of the men who had gone with David, responding, said: “Since they did not go with us, we will not give to them anything from the prey that we have rescued. But let his wife and children be enough for each of them; when they have accepted this, they may go back.”
1 Samuel 30:23	But David said: “You shall not do this, my brothers, with these things that the Lord has delivered to us, for he has preserved us, and he has given into our hands the robbers who broke out among us.
1 Samuel 30:24	And so, let no one heed you over these words. But equal shall be the portion of him who descended to the battle, and of him who remained with the supplies, and they will divide it alike.”
1 Samuel 30:25	And this has been done from that day and thereafter. And it was established as a statute, and as if a law, in Israel even to this day.
1 Samuel 30:26	Then David went to Ziklag, and he sent gifts from the prey to the elders of Judah, his neighbors, saying, “Receive a blessing from the prey of the enemies of the Lord,”
1 Samuel 30:27	to those who were in Bethel, and who were in Ramoth toward the south, and who were in Jattir,
1 Samuel 30:28	and who were in Aroer, and who were in Siphmoth, and who were in Eshtemoa,
1 Samuel 30:29	and who were in Racal, and who were in the cities of Jerahmeel, and who were in the cities of Keni,
1 Samuel 30:30	and who were in Hormah, and who were at the lake of Ashan, and who were in Athach,
1 Samuel 30:31	and who were in Hebron, and to the remainder who were in those places where David had stayed, he and his men.
1 Samuel 31:1	Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel. And the men of Israel fled before the face of the Philistines, and they fell down slain on mount Gilboa.
1 Samuel 31:2	And the Philistines rushed upon Saul, and upon his sons, and they struck down Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
1 Samuel 31:3	And the entire weight of the battle was turned against Saul. And the men who were archers pursued him. And he was severely wounded by the archers.
1 Samuel 31:4	Then Saul said to his armor bearer, “Draw your sword and strike me, otherwise these uncircumcised may come and kill me, mocking me.” And his armor bearer was not willing. For he had been struck with an exceedingly great fear. And so, Saul took his own sword, and he fell upon it.
1 Samuel 31:5	And when his armor bearer had seen this, namely, that Saul had died, he too fell upon his sword, and he died with him.
1 Samuel 31:6	Therefore, Saul died, and his three sons, and his armor bearer, and all his men, on the same day together.
1 Samuel 31:7	Then, seeing that the men of the Israelites had fled, and that Saul had died with his sons, the men of Israel who were across the valley or beyond the Jordan abandoned their cities, and they fled. And the Philistines went and lived there.
1 Samuel 31:8	Then, when the next day arrived, the Philistines came, so that they might despoil the slain. And they found Saul and his three sons lying on mount Gilboa.
1 Samuel 31:9	And they cut off the head of Saul. And they despoiled him of the armor, and they sent it into the land of the Philistines all around, so that it might be announced in the temples of the idols and among their people.
1 Samuel 31:10	And they placed his armor in the temple of Ashtaroth. But his body they suspended on the wall of Bethshan.
1 Samuel 31:11	And when the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead had heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
1 Samuel 31:12	all the most valiant men rose up, and they walked all night, and they took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Bethshan. And they went to Jabesh Gilead, and they burned them there.
1 Samuel 31:13	And they took their bones, and they buried them in the forest of Jabesh. And they fasted for seven days.
2 Samuel 1:1	Now it happened that, after Saul died, David returned from the slaughter of Amalek, and he remained for two days at Ziklag.
2 Samuel 1:2	Then, on the third day, a man appeared, arriving from the camp of Saul, with his garments torn and dust sprinkled on his head. And when he came to David, he fell on his face, and he reverenced.
2 Samuel 1:3	And David said to him, “Where have you come from?” And he said to him, “I have fled from the camp of Israel.”
2 Samuel 1:4	And David said to him: “What is the word that has happened? Reveal it to me.” And he said: “The people have fled from the battle, and many of the people have fallen and died. Moreover, Saul and his son Jonathan have passed away.”
2 Samuel 1:5	And David said to the youth who was reporting to him, “How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan have died?”
2 Samuel 1:6	And the youth, who was reporting it to him, said: “I arrived by chance on mount Gilboa. And Saul was lying upon his spear. Then the chariots and horsemen drew near to him.
2 Samuel 1:7	And turning behind his back and seeing me, he called to me. And when I had responded, “I am here,”
2 Samuel 1:8	he said to me, “Who are you?” And I said to him, “I am an Amalekite.”
2 Samuel 1:9	And he said to me: “Stand over me, and kill me. For anguish has taken hold of me, and still my whole life is in me.”
2 Samuel 1:10	And standing over him, I killed him. For I knew that he was not able to live after the fall. And I took the diadem that was on his head, and the bracelet from his arm, and I have brought them here to you, my lord.”
2 Samuel 1:11	Then David, taking hold of his garments, tore them, with all the men who were with him.
2 Samuel 1:12	And they mourned, and wept, and fasted until evening, over Saul and over his son Jonathan, and over the people of the Lord and over the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword.
2 Samuel 1:13	And David said to the youth who had reported it to him, “Where are you from?” And he responded, “I am the son of a man who is a new arrival from the Amalekites.”
2 Samuel 1:14	And David said to him, “Why were you not afraid to put forth your hand, so that you would kill the Christ of the Lord?”
2 Samuel 1:15	And calling one of his servants, David said, “Draw near and rush against him” And he struck him, and he died.
2 Samuel 1:16	And David said to him: “Your blood is upon your own head. For your own mouth has spoken against you, saying: ‘I have killed the Christ of the Lord.’ ”
2 Samuel 1:17	Then David mourned a lamentation over Saul and over his son Jonathan, in this way.
2 Samuel 1:18	(And he instructed that they should teach the sons of Judah the bow, just as it is written in the Book of the Just.) And he said: “Consider, O Israel, on behalf of those who are dead, wounded upon your heights:
2 Samuel 1:19	The illustrious of Israel have been killed upon your mountains. How could the valiant have fallen?
2 Samuel 1:20	Do not choose to announce it in Gath, and do not announce it in the crossroads of Ashkelon. Otherwise, the daughters of the Philistines may rejoice; otherwise, the daughters of the uncircumcised may exult.
2 Samuel 1:21	O mountains of Gilboa, let neither dew, nor rain fall over you, and may these not be the fields of the first-fruits. For in that place, the shield of the valiant was cast away, the shield of Saul, as if he had not been anointed with oil.
2 Samuel 1:22	From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the strong, the arrow of Jonathan never turned back, and the sword of Saul did not return empty.
2 Samuel 1:23	Saul and Jonathan, worthy to be loved, and stately in their life: even in death they were not divided. They were swifter than eagles, stronger than lions.
2 Samuel 1:24	O daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you with scarlet finery, who offered ornaments of gold for your adornment.
2 Samuel 1:25	How could the valiant have fallen in battle? How could Jonathan have been slain on the heights?
2 Samuel 1:26	I grieve over you, my brother Jonathan: exceedingly stately, and worthy to be loved above the love of women. As a mother loves her only son, so also did I love you.
2 Samuel 1:27	How could the robust have fallen, and the weapons of war have perished?”
2 Samuel 2:1	And so, after these things, David consulted the Lord, saying, “Shall I ascend to one of the cities of Judah?” And the Lord said to him, “Ascend.” And David said, “To where shall I ascend?” And he responded to him, “To Hebron.”
2 Samuel 2:2	Therefore, David ascended with his two wives, Ahinoam, the Jezreelite, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
2 Samuel 2:3	And as for the men who were with him, David led forth each man with his household. And they stayed in the towns of Hebron.
2 Samuel 2:4	And the men of Judah went and anointed David there, so that he would reign over the house of Judah. And it was reported to David that the men of Jabesh Gilead had buried Saul.
2 Samuel 2:5	Therefore, David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh Gilead, and he said to them: “Blessed are you to the Lord, who has accomplished this mercy with your lord Saul, so that you would bury him.
2 Samuel 2:6	And now, certainly, the Lord will repay to you mercy and truth. But I also will act with favor, because you have accomplished this word.
2 Samuel 2:7	Let your hands be strengthened, and be sons of fortitude. For even though your lord Saul has died, still the house of Judah has anointed me as king over them.”
2 Samuel 2:8	Then Abner, the son of Ner, the leader of the army of Saul, took Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, and he led him around, throughout the camp.
2 Samuel 2:9	And he appointed him as king over Gilead, and over Geshuri, and over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all of Israel.
2 Samuel 2:10	Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, was forty years old when he had begun to rule over Israel. And he reigned for two years. For only the house of Judah followed David.
2 Samuel 2:11	And the number of the days, during which David was staying and ruling in Hebron over the house of Judah, was seven years and six months.
2 Samuel 2:12	And Abner, the son of Ner, and the youths of Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, went out from the camp to Gibeon.
2 Samuel 2:13	Therefore, Joab, the son of Zeruiah, and the youths of David, went out and met them beside the pool of Gibeon. And when they had convened together, they sat down opposite one another: these on one side of the pool, and those on the other side.
2 Samuel 2:14	And Abner said to Joab, “Let the youths rise up and play before us.” And Joab answered, “Let them rise up.”
2 Samuel 2:15	Therefore, they rose up and crossed over, twelve in number of Benjamin, from the side of Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, and twelve of the youths of David.
2 Samuel 2:16	And each one, taking hold of his peer by the head, fixed a sword into the side of his adversary, and they fell down together. And the name of that place was called: The Field of the Valiant in Gibeon.
2 Samuel 2:17	And a very harsh war rose up on that day. And Abner, with the men of Israel, was put to flight by the youths of David.
2 Samuel 2:18	Now the three sons of Zeruiah were in that place: Joab, and Abishai, and Asahel. And Asahel was a very swift runner, like one of the deer that lives in the forest.
2 Samuel 2:19	And Asahel pursued Abner, and he did not turn aside to the right, nor to the left, to cease in the pursuit of Abner.
2 Samuel 2:20	And so, Abner looked behind his back, and he said, “Are you not Asahel?” And he responded, “I am.”
2 Samuel 2:21	And Abner said to him, “Go to the right, or to the left, and apprehend one of the youths, and take his spoils for yourself.” But Asahel was not willing to cease from pursuing him closely.
2 Samuel 2:22	And again, Abner said to Asahel: “Withdraw, and do not choose to follow me. Otherwise, I will be compelled to stab you to the ground, and I will not be able to lift up my face before your brother, Joab.”
2 Samuel 2:23	But he disdained to heed him, and he was not willing to turn aside. Therefore, turning, Abner struck him with his spear in the groin, and he pierced him through, and he died in the same place. And all those who would pass by the place, in which Asahel had fallen and died, would stand still.
2 Samuel 2:24	Now while Joab and Abishai were pursuing Abner as he fled, the sun set. And they went as far as the Hill of the Aqueduct, which is opposite the valley on the way of the desert in Gibeon.
2 Samuel 2:25	And the sons of Benjamin gathered themselves to Abner. And being joined in one battle line, they stood at the summit of a hill.
2 Samuel 2:26	And Abner cried out to Joab, and he said: “Will your sword rage unto utter destruction? Are you ignorant that it is perilous to act in desperation? How long will you not tell the people to cease from the pursuit of their brothers?”
2 Samuel 2:27	And Joab said: “As the Lord lives, if you had spoken in the morning, the people would have withdrawn from pursuing their brothers.”
2 Samuel 2:28	Therefore, Joab sounded the trumpet, and the entire army stood still, and they did not pursue after Israel any more, and they did not engage in conflict.
2 Samuel 2:29	Then Abner and his men went away, all that night, through the plains. And they crossed the Jordan, and having roamed throughout all of Beth-horon, they arrived in the camp.
2 Samuel 2:30	But Joab, returning after he had released Abner, gathered together all the people. And of David’s youths, they were missing nineteen men, aside from Asahel.
2 Samuel 2:31	But of Benjamin and of the men who were with Abner, the servants of David had struck three hundred and sixty, who also died.
2 Samuel 2:32	And they took Asahel, and they buried him in the sepulcher of his father at Bethlehem. And Joab, and the men who were with him, walked throughout the night, and they arrived in Hebron at the very break of day.
2 Samuel 3:1	Then a long struggle occurred between the house of Saul and the house of David, with David prospering and growing ever stronger, but the house of Saul decreasing daily.
2 Samuel 3:2	And sons were born to David in Hebron. And his firstborn son was Amnon, from Ahinoam the Jezreelite.
2 Samuel 3:3	And after him, there was Chileab, from Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel. Then the third was Absalom, the son of Maacah, the daughter of Talmai, the king of Geshur.
2 Samuel 3:4	Then the fourth was Adonijah, the son of Haggith. And the fifth was Shephatiah, the son of Abital.
2 Samuel 3:5	Also, the sixth was Ithream, from Eglah, the wife of David. These were born to David at Hebron.
2 Samuel 3:6	Then, while there was a battle between the house of Saul and the house of David, Abner, the son of Ner, was reigning over the house of Saul.
2 Samuel 3:7	Now Saul had a concubine named Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah. And Ishbosheth said to Abner,
2 Samuel 3:8	“Why did you enter to the concubine of my father?” But he, being exceedingly angry at the words of Ishbosheth, said: “Am I the head of a dog against Judah this day? I have shown mercy to the house of Saul, your father, and to his brothers and friends. And I have not delivered you into the hands of David. And yet today you have sought me, so that you might rebuke me over a woman?
2 Samuel 3:9	May God do these things to Abner, and may he add these other things, if, in the same way that the Lord swore to David, I do not do so with him:
2 Samuel 3:10	that the kingdom be transferred from the house of Saul, and that the throne of David be elevated over Israel and over Judah, from Dan to Beersheba.”
2 Samuel 3:11	And he was not able to respond anything to him, because he was in fear of him.
2 Samuel 3:12	Therefore, Abner sent messengers to David for himself, saying, “Whose is the land?” and so that they would say, “Make a friendship with me, and my hand will be with you, and I will lead back all of Israel to you.”
2 Samuel 3:13	And he said: “It is best. I will make a friendship with you. But one thing I ask of you, saying: You shall not see my face before you bring Michal, the daughter of Saul. And in this way, you shall come, and see me.”
2 Samuel 3:14	Then David sent messengers to Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, saying, “Restore my wife Michal, whom I espoused to myself for one hundred foreskins of the Philistines.”
2 Samuel 3:15	Therefore, Ishbosheth sent and took her from her husband Paltiel, the son of Laish.
2 Samuel 3:16	And her husband was following her, weeping, as far as Bahurim. And Abner said to him, “Go and return.” And he returned.
2 Samuel 3:17	Likewise, Abner sent word to the elders of Israel, saying: “As much yesterday as the day before, you were seeking David, so that he might reign over you.
2 Samuel 3:18	Therefore, accomplish it now. For the Lord has spoken to David, saying: ‘By the hand of my servant David, I will save my people Israel from the hand of the Philistines and of all their enemies.’ ”
2 Samuel 3:19	Then Abner also spoke to Benjamin. And he went away, so that he might speak to David in Hebron all that would be pleasing to Israel and to all of Benjamin.
2 Samuel 3:20	And he went to David in Hebron with twenty men. And David made a feast for Abner, and for his men who had arrived with him.
2 Samuel 3:21	And Abner said to David, “I will rise up, so that I may gather all of Israel to you, my lord the king, and so that I may enter into a pact with you, and so that you may reign over all, just as your soul desires.” Then, when David had led Abner away, and he had departed in peace,
2 Samuel 3:22	immediately the servants of David and of Joab arrived, after having slain robbers, with exceedingly great spoils. But Abner was not with David in Hebron. For by then he had sent him away, and he had set out in peace.
2 Samuel 3:23	And Joab, and the entire army that was with him, had arrived afterward. And so, it was reported to Joab, explaining that Abner, the son of Ner, went to the king, and he dismissed him, and he went away in peace.
2 Samuel 3:24	And Joab entered to the king, and he said: “What have you done? Behold, Abner came to you. Why did you dismiss him, so that he has gone and departed?
2 Samuel 3:25	Do you not know, about Abner, the son of Ner, that he came to you for this, so that he might deceive you, and might know of your departure and your return, and so that he might know all that you do?”
2 Samuel 3:26	And so, Joab, going out from David, sent messengers after Abner, and he brought him back from the cistern of Sirah, without David knowing.
2 Samuel 3:27	And when Abner had returned to Hebron, Joab took him alone to the middle of the gate, so that he might speak to him, but with deceit. And there, he stabbed him in the groin, and he died, in revenge for the blood of Asahel, his brother.
2 Samuel 3:28	And when David had heard of it, now that the matter was done, he said: “I and my kingdom are clean before the Lord, even forever, of the blood of Abner, the son of Ner.
2 Samuel 3:29	And may it fall upon the head of Joab, and upon the entire house of his father. And may there not fail to be, in the house of Joab, one who suffers from a flow of seed, or one who is leprous, or one who is effeminate, or one who falls by the sword, or one who is in need of bread.”
2 Samuel 3:30	And so, Joab and his brother Abishai killed Abner, because he had killed their brother Asahel at Gibeon, during the battle.
2 Samuel 3:31	Then David said to Joab, and to all the people who were with him, “Tear your garments, and gird yourselves with sackcloth, and mourn before the funeral procession of Abner.” Moreover, king David himself was following the casket.
2 Samuel 3:32	And when they had buried Abner in Hebron, king David lifted up his voice, and he wept over the burial mound of Abner. And all the people also wept.
2 Samuel 3:33	And the king, mourning and lamenting Abner, said: “By no means has Abner died the way that cowards usually die.
2 Samuel 3:34	Your hands are not bound, and your feet are not weighed down with fetters. But just as men often fall before the sons of iniquity, so you have fallen.” And while repeating this, all the people wept over him.
2 Samuel 3:35	And when the entire multitude had arrived to take food with David, while it was still broad daylight, David swore, saying, “May God do these things to me, and may he add these other things, if I taste bread or anything else before the sun sets.”
2 Samuel 3:36	And all the people heard it, and everything that the king did in the sight of the entire people was pleasing to them.
2 Samuel 3:37	And every common person, and all of Israel, realized on that day that the killing of Abner, the son of Ner, had not been done by the king.
2 Samuel 3:38	The king also said to his servants: “Could you be ignorant that a leader and a very great man has fallen today in Israel?
2 Samuel 3:39	But I am still tender, and yet anointed king. And these men of the sons of Zeruiah are too harsh for me. May the Lord repay whoever does evil in accord with his malice.”
2 Samuel 4:1	Then Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, heard that Abner had fallen in Hebron. And his hands were weakened, and all of Israel was troubled.
2 Samuel 4:2	Now the son of Saul had two men, leaders among robbers. The name of the one was Baanah, and the name of the other was Rechab, sons of Rimmon, a Beerothite from the sons of Benjamin. For indeed, Beeroth, too, was reputed with Benjamin.
2 Samuel 4:3	And the Beerothites had fled into Gittaim. And they were strangers there, until that time.
2 Samuel 4:4	Now Jonathan, the son of Saul, had a son with disabled feet. For he was five years old when the report about Saul and Jonathan arrived from Jezreel. And so, his nurse, taking him up, fled. And while she was hurrying, so that she might flee, he fell and was made lame. And he was called Mephibosheth.
2 Samuel 4:5	And so, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, arrived and entered the house of Ishbosheth, in the heat of the day. And he was sleeping on his bed at midday. And the doorkeeper of the house, who was cleaning the wheat, fell fast asleep.
2 Samuel 4:6	Then they entered the house secretly, taking the ears of grain. And Rechab and his brother Baanah stabbed him in the groin, and they fled away.
2 Samuel 4:7	For when they had entered the house, he was sleeping on his bed in a closed room. And striking him, they killed him. And taking his head, they departed by the way of the desert, walking throughout the night.
2 Samuel 4:8	And they brought the head of Ishbosheth to David in Hebron. And they said to the king: “Behold, the head of Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, your enemy, who was seeking your life. And so, the Lord has avenged my lord the king, this day, from Saul and from his offspring.”
2 Samuel 4:9	But David, responding to Rechab and his brother Baanah, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, said to them: “As the Lord lives who has rescued my soul from all distress,
2 Samuel 4:10	the one who reported to me and said, ‘Saul is dead,’ who was thinking that he announced good news, I apprehended. And at Ziklag I killed him who ought to have been given a reward for the news.
2 Samuel 4:11	How much more so now, when impious men have put to death an innocent man in his own house, upon his bed, shall I not require his blood from your hand, and take you away from the earth?”
2 Samuel 4:12	And so, David commanded his servants, and they put them to death. And cutting off their hands and feet, they suspended them up over the pool in Hebron. But the head of Ishbosheth they took and buried in the sepulcher of Abner at Hebron.
2 Samuel 5:1	And all the tribes of Israel went to David in Hebron, saying: “Behold, we are your bone and your flesh.
2 Samuel 5:2	Moreover, yesterday and the day before, when Saul was king over us, you were the one leading out and leading back Israel. Then the Lord said to you, ‘You shall pasture my people Israel, and you shall be the leader over Israel.’ ”
2 Samuel 5:3	Also, the elders of Israel went to the king at Hebron, and king David struck a pact with them at Hebron in the sight of the Lord. And they anointed David as king over Israel.
2 Samuel 5:4	David was a son of thirty years, when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for forty years.
2 Samuel 5:5	In Hebron, he reigned over Judah for seven years and six months. Then in Jerusalem, he reigned for thirty-three years over all of Israel and Judah.
2 Samuel 5:6	And the king, and all the men who were with him, went away to Jerusalem, to the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land. And it was said to David by them, “You shall not enter here, unless you will take away the blind and the lame, who say, ‘David shall not enter here.’ ”
2 Samuel 5:7	But David seized the stronghold of Zion; the same is the city of David.
2 Samuel 5:8	For David had proposed, on that day, a reward to him who had struck the Jebusites and who had reached to the gutters of the rooftops, and who had taken away the blind and the lame that hated the soul of David. Therefore, it is said in the proverb, “The blind and the lame shall not enter into the temple.”
2 Samuel 5:9	Then David lived in the stronghold, and he called it: the City of David. And he built it up on all sides, from Millo and inward.
2 Samuel 5:10	And he advanced, prospering and increasing, and the Lord, the God of hosts, was with him.
2 Samuel 5:11	Also, Hiram, the king of Tyre, sent messengers to David, with cedar wood, and with builders of wood and builders of stone, in order to make walls. And they built a house for David.
2 Samuel 5:12	And David knew that the Lord had confirmed him as king over Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom over his people Israel.
2 Samuel 5:13	Then David took more concubines and wives from Jerusalem, after he had arrived from Hebron. And other sons as well as daughters were born to David.
2 Samuel 5:14	And these are the names of those who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon,
2 Samuel 5:15	and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Nepheg,
2 Samuel 5:16	and Japhia, and Elishama, and Eliada, and Elipheleth.
2 Samuel 5:17	Then the Philistines heard that they had anointed David as king over Israel. And they all ascended, so that they might seek David. And when David had heard of it, he descended to a stronghold.
2 Samuel 5:18	Now the Philistines, arriving, spread themselves out in the Valley of Rephaim.
2 Samuel 5:19	And David consulted the Lord, saying: “Shall I ascend to the Philistines? And will you give them into my hand?” And the Lord said to David: “Ascend. For I will certainly give the Philistines into your hand.”
2 Samuel 5:20	Therefore, David went to Baal-perazim. And he struck them there. And he said, “The Lord has divided my enemies before me, just as the waters are divided.” Because of this, the name of that place was called Baal-perazim.
2 Samuel 5:21	And in that place they left behind their graven images, which David and his men took away.
2 Samuel 5:22	And the Philistines continued still, so that they ascended and spread themselves out in the Valley of Rephaim.
2 Samuel 5:23	Then David consulted the Lord, “Shall I ascend against the Philistines, and will you deliver them into my hands?” And he responded: “You shall not ascend against them; instead, circle behind their back. And you shall come to them from the side opposite the balsam trees.
2 Samuel 5:24	And when you hear the sound of something going forth from the tops of the balsam trees, then you shall begin the battle. For then the Lord will go forth, before your face, so that he may strike the army of the Philistines.”
2 Samuel 5:25	And so, David did just as the Lord had instructed him. And he struck down the Philistines, from Gibeon until you arrive at Gezer.
2 Samuel 6:1	Then David again gathered together all the elect men of Israel, thirty thousand.
2 Samuel 6:2	And David arose and went away, with the entire people who were with him from the men of Judah, so that they might lead back the ark of God, over which is invoked the name of the Lord of hosts, who sits upon the cherubim above it.
2 Samuel 6:3	And they placed the ark of God on a new cart. And they took it from the house of Abinadab, who was in Gibeon. And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drove the new cart.
2 Samuel 6:4	And when they had taken it from the house of Abinadab, who was in Gibeon, Ahio preceded the ark as the keeper of the ark of God.
2 Samuel 6:5	But David and all of Israel played before the Lord on every kind of musical instrument made of wood, and on harps, and lyres, and timbrels, and bells, and cymbals.
2 Samuel 6:6	And after they had arrived at the threshing floor of Nacon, Uzzah extended his hand to the ark of God, and he touched it, because the oxen were kicking and had caused it to tip.
2 Samuel 6:7	And the indignation of the Lord was enraged against Uzzah. And he struck him for his temerity. And there he died, beside the ark of God.
2 Samuel 6:8	Then David was saddened because the Lord had struck Uzzah. And the name of that place was called: the Striking of Uzzah, even to this day.
2 Samuel 6:9	And David was very fearful of the Lord on that day, saying, “How shall the ark of the Lord be brought to me?”
2 Samuel 6:10	And he was not willing to send the ark of the Lord to himself in the city of David. Instead, he sent it into the house of Obededom, the Gittite.
2 Samuel 6:11	And the ark of the Lord dwelt in the house of Obededom the Gittite, for three months. And the Lord blessed Obededom, and all his household.
2 Samuel 6:12	And it was reported to king David that the Lord had blessed Obededom, and all that was his, because of the ark of God. Therefore, David went and brought the ark of God, from the house of Obededom, into the city of David with joy. And there were with David seven choirs, and calves for victims.
2 Samuel 6:13	And when those who were carrying the ark of the Lord had traveled six steps, he immolated an ox and a ram.
2 Samuel 6:14	And David danced with all his ability before the Lord. And David was girded with the linen ephod.
2 Samuel 6:15	And David, and all the house of Israel, were leading the ark of the testament of the Lord, with jubilation and the sound of the trumpet.
2 Samuel 6:16	And when the ark of the Lord had entered into the city of David, Michal, the daughter of Saul, looking out through a window, saw king David leaping and dancing before the Lord. And she despised him in her heart.
2 Samuel 6:17	And they led in the ark of the Lord. And they set it in its place in the middle of the tabernacle, which David had pitched for it. And David offered holocausts and peace offerings in the sight of the Lord.
2 Samuel 6:18	And when he had completed offering holocausts and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord of hosts.
2 Samuel 6:19	And he distributed to the entire multitude of Israel, as much to men as to women, to each one: one loaf of bread, and one piece of roasted beef, and fine wheat flour fried with oil. And all the people went away, each one to his own house.
2 Samuel 6:20	And David returned, so that he might bless his own house. And Michal, the daughter of Saul, going out to meet David, said: “How glorious was the king of Israel today, uncovering himself before the handmaids of his servants, and being unclothed, as if one of the performers were unclothed.”
2 Samuel 6:21	And David said to Michal: “Before the Lord, who chose me rather than your father, and rather than his entire house, and who commanded me, that I should be the leader over the people of the Lord in Israel,
2 Samuel 6:22	I will both play and demean myself, more so than I have done. And I will be little in my own eyes. And with the handmaids, about whom you are speaking, I will appear more glorious.”
2 Samuel 6:23	And so, there was no child born to Michal, the daughter of Saul, even to the day of her death.
2 Samuel 7:1	Now it happened that, when the king had settled in his house, and the Lord had given him rest on every side from all his enemies,
2 Samuel 7:2	he said to the prophet Nathan, “Do you not see that I live in a house of cedar, and that the ark of God has been placed in the midst of tent skins?”
2 Samuel 7:3	And Nathan said to the king: “Go, do all that is in your heart. For the Lord is with you.”
2 Samuel 7:4	But it happened in that night, behold, the word of the Lord came to Nathan, saying:
2 Samuel 7:5	“Go, and say to my servant David: ‘Thus says the Lord: Should you build a house for me as a dwelling place?
2 Samuel 7:6	For I have not lived in a house from the day that I led the sons of Israel away from the land of Egypt, even to this day. Instead, I have walked in a tabernacle, and in a tent.
2 Samuel 7:7	And in all the places that I have crossed through, with all the sons of Israel, did I ever speak a word to anyone from the tribes of Israel, whom I instructed to pasture my people Israel, saying: Why have you not built me a house of cedar?’
2 Samuel 7:8	And now, so shall you speak to my servant David: ‘Thus says the Lord of hosts: I took you from the pastures, from following the sheep, so that you would be the leader over my people Israel.
2 Samuel 7:9	And I have been with you everywhere that you walked. And I have slain all your enemies before your face. And I have made you a great name, beside the name of the great ones who are upon the earth.
2 Samuel 7:10	And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and I will plant them, and they shall live there, and they shall no longer be disturbed. Neither shall the sons of iniquity continue to afflict them as before,
2 Samuel 7:11	from the day when I appointed judges over my people Israel. And I will give rest to you from all your enemies. And the Lord foretells to you that the Lord himself will make a house for you.
2 Samuel 7:12	And when your days will have been fulfilled, and you will sleep with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who will go forth from your loins, and I will make firm his kingdom.
2 Samuel 7:13	He himself shall build a house to my name. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom, even forever.
2 Samuel 7:14	I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. And if he will commit any iniquity, I will correct him with the rod of men and with the wounds of the sons of men.
2 Samuel 7:15	But my mercy I will not take away from him, as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before my face.
2 Samuel 7:16	And your house shall be faithful, and your kingdom shall be before your face, for eternity, and your throne shall be secure continuously.’ ”
2 Samuel 7:17	According to all these words, and according to this entire vision, so did Nathan speak to David.
2 Samuel 7:18	Then king David entered and sat before the Lord, and he said: “Who am I, O Lord God, and what is my house, that you would bring me to this point?
2 Samuel 7:19	Moreover, this has seemed little in your sight, O Lord God, unless you also will speak about the house of your servant for a long time. For this is the law of Adam, O Lord God.
2 Samuel 7:20	Therefore, what more will David be able to say to you? For you know your servant, O Lord God.
2 Samuel 7:21	Because of your word, and according to your own heart, you have done all these great deeds, so that you would make it known to your servant.
2 Samuel 7:22	For this reason, you are magnified, O Lord God. For there is no one like you. And there is no God except you, in all the things that we have heard with our own ears.
2 Samuel 7:23	But what nation is there upon the earth like your people Israel, because of whom God went forth, so that he might redeem a people for himself, and establish a name for himself, and accomplish for them great and terrible things upon the earth, before the face of your people, whom you redeemed for yourself away Egypt, the nations and their gods.
2 Samuel 7:24	For you have secured your people Israel for yourself, as an everlasting people. And you, O Lord God, have become their God.
2 Samuel 7:25	Now therefore, O Lord God, raise up forever the word that you have spoken over your servant and over his house. And do just as you have said,
2 Samuel 7:26	so that your name may be magnified even forever, and so that it may be said: ‘The Lord of hosts is the God over Israel.’ And the house of your servant David will be established in the sight of the Lord.
2 Samuel 7:27	For you, O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, have revealed to the ear of your servant, saying, ‘I will build a house for you.’ Because of this, your servant has found it in his heart to pray this prayer to you.
2 Samuel 7:28	Now therefore, O Lord God, you are God, and your words shall be true. For you have spoken to your servant these good things.
2 Samuel 7:29	Therefore, begin, and bless the house of your servant, so that it may be forever before you. For you, O Lord God, have spoken. And so, let the house of your servant be blessed with your blessing forever.”
2 Samuel 8:1	Now after these things, it happened that David struck the Philistines, and he humbled them. And David took the bridle of tribute from the hand of the Philistines.
2 Samuel 8:2	And he struck Moab, and he measured them with a line, leveling them to the ground. Now he measured with two lines, one to kill, and one to keep alive. And Moab was made to serve David under tribute.
2 Samuel 8:3	And David struck Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, the king of Zobah, when he set out to rule over the river Euphrates.
2 Samuel 8:4	And from his troops, David seized one thousand seven hundred horsemen and twenty thousand foot soldiers. And he cut the sinew of the leg in all the chariot horses. But he left aside enough of them for one hundred chariots.
2 Samuel 8:5	And the Syrians of Damascus arrived, so that they might bring reinforcements to Hadadezer, the king of Zobah. And David struck down twenty-two thousand men of the Syrians.
2 Samuel 8:6	And David positioned a garrison in Syria of Damascus. And Syria served David under tribute. And the Lord assisted David in all things whatsoever that he set out to accomplish.
2 Samuel 8:7	And David took the armbands of gold, which the servants of Hadadezer had, and he brought them to Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 8:8	And from Betah and Beeroth, cities of Hadadezer, king David took an exceedingly great amount of brass.
2 Samuel 8:9	Then Toi, the king of Hamath, heard that David had struck down the entire strength of Hadadezer.
2 Samuel 8:10	And so, Toi sent his son Joram to king David, so that he might greet him with congratulations, and give thanks, because he had fought against Hadadezer and had struck him down. For indeed, Toi was the enemy of Hadadezer. And in his hand were vessels of gold, and vessels of silver, and vessels of brass.
2 Samuel 8:11	And king David also sanctified these things to the Lord, with the silver and gold that he had sanctified from all the peoples whom he had subdued:
2 Samuel 8:12	from Syria, and Moab, and the sons Ammon, and the Philistines, and Amalek, and from the best spoils of Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, the king of Zobah.
2 Samuel 8:13	David also made a name for himself when he returned from seizing Syria, in the Valley of the Salt Pits, having cut down eighteen thousand.
2 Samuel 8:14	And he positioned guards in Edom, and he stationed a garrison. And all of Edom was made to serve David. And the Lord assisted David in all things whatsoever that he set out to accomplish.
2 Samuel 8:15	And David reigned over all of Israel. And David accomplished judgment and justice with all his people.
2 Samuel 8:16	Now Joab, the son Zeruiah, was over the army. And Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, was the keeper of records.
2 Samuel 8:17	And Zadok, the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, were the priests. And Seraiah was the scribe.
2 Samuel 8:18	And Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was over the Cherethites and Pelethites. But the sons of David were priests.
2 Samuel 9:1	And David said, “Do you think that there could be anyone left from the house of Saul, so that I might show mercy to him because of Jonathan?”
2 Samuel 9:2	Now there was, from the house of Saul, a servant named Ziba. And when the king had called him to himself, he said to him, “Are you not Ziba?” And he responded, “I am your servant.”
2 Samuel 9:3	And the king said, “Could there be anyone alive from the house of Saul, so that I may show the mercy of God to him?” And Ziba said to the king, “There is left alive a son of Jonathan, with disabled feet.”
2 Samuel 9:4	“Where is he?” he said. And Ziba said to the king, “Behold, he is in the house of Machir, the son of Ammiel, in Lodebar.”
2 Samuel 9:5	Therefore, king David sent and brought him from the house of Machir, the son of Ammiel, from Lodebar.
2 Samuel 9:6	And when Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, had come to David, he fell upon his face, and he reverenced. And David said, “Mephibosheth?” And he responded, “Your servant is here.”
2 Samuel 9:7	And David said to him: “Do not be afraid. For I will certainly show mercy to you because of your father Jonathan. And I will restore to you all the fields of your father Saul. And you shall eat bread at my table always.”
2 Samuel 9:8	And reverencing him, he said, “Who am I, your servant, that you should look with favor upon a dead dog like me?”
2 Samuel 9:9	And so, the king called Ziba, the servant of Saul, and he said to him: “Everything whatsoever that belonged to Saul, and his entire house, I have given to the son of your lord.
2 Samuel 9:10	And so, work the land for him, you and your sons and your servants. And you shall bring in food for the son of your lord, for nourishment. And Mephibosheth, the son of your lord, shall always eat bread at my table.” Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants.
2 Samuel 9:11	And Ziba said to the king: “Just as my lord has ordered your servant, so will your servant do. And Mephibosheth shall eat at my table, like one of the sons of the king.”
2 Samuel 9:12	Now Mephibosheth had a young son whose name was Mica. Truly, all the kindred of the house of Ziba served Mephibosheth.
2 Samuel 9:13	But Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem. For he was fed always from the table of the king. And he was lame in both feet.
2 Samuel 10:1	Now after these things, it happened that the king of the sons of Ammon died, and his son Hanun reigned after him.
2 Samuel 10:2	And David said, “I will show mercy to Hanun, the son of Nahash, just as his father showed mercy to me.” Therefore, David sent consolation to him, by his servants, over the passing of his father. But when the servants of David had arrived in the land of the sons of Ammon,
2 Samuel 10:3	the leaders of the sons of Ammon said to Hanun, their lord: “Do you think it was because of the honor of your father that David sent consolers to you? And did not David send his servants to you, so that he might investigate and explore the city, and so that he might overthrow it?”
2 Samuel 10:4	And so, Hanun took the servants of David, and he shaved off one half part of their beards, and he cut their garments at the middle, as far as the buttocks, and he sent them away.
2 Samuel 10:5	And when this had been reported to David, he sent to meet them. And the men were greatly disturbed by shame. And David commanded them, “Remain in Jericho, until your beards grow, and then return.”
2 Samuel 10:6	Now the sons of Ammon, seeing that they had done an injury to David, sent for, and paid wages to, the Syrians of Rehob, and the Syrians of Zobah, twenty thousand foot soldiers, and from the king of Maacah, one thousand men, and from Tob, twelve thousand men.
2 Samuel 10:7	And when David had heard this, he sent Joab and the entire army of warriors.
2 Samuel 10:8	Then the sons of Ammon went forth, and they positioned their battle line before the very entrance of the gates. But the Syrians of Zobah, and of Rehob, and of Tob, and of Maacah, were by themselves in the field.
2 Samuel 10:9	And so, seeing that the battle had been prepared against him, both facing him and behind, Joab chose some from all of the elect men of Israel, and he set up a battle line opposite the Syrians.
2 Samuel 10:10	But the remaining part of the people he delivered to his brother Abishai, who formed a battle line against the sons of Ammon.
2 Samuel 10:11	And Joab said: “If the Syrians prevail against me, then you shall assist me. But if the sons of Ammon prevail against you, then I will assist you.
2 Samuel 10:12	Be valiant men. And let us fight on behalf of our people and the city of our God. Then the Lord will do what is good in his own sight.”
2 Samuel 10:13	And so, Joab, and the people who were with him, undertook the conflict against the Syrians, who immediately fled before their face.
2 Samuel 10:14	Then, seeing that the Syrians had fled, the sons of Ammon themselves also fled from the face of Abishai, and they entered into the city. And Joab returned from the sons of Ammon, and he went to Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 10:15	And so, the Syrians, seeing that they had fallen before Israel, gathered themselves together.
2 Samuel 10:16	And Hadadezer sent and brought the Syrians who were beyond the river, and he led in their army. And Shobach, the rule of the military of Hadadezer, was their leader.
2 Samuel 10:17	And when this had been reported to David, he drew together all of Israel. And he crossed over the Jordan, and he went to Helam. And the Syrians formed a battle line opposite David, and they fought against him.
2 Samuel 10:18	And the Syrians fled before the face of Israel. And David killed, among the Syrians, the men of seven hundred chariots, and forty thousand horsemen. And he struck down Shobach, the leader of the military, who immediately died.
2 Samuel 10:19	Then all the kings who were in the reinforcements of Hadadezer, seeing themselves to be defeated by Israel, were very afraid and they fled: fifty-eight thousand men before Israel. And they made peace with Israel, and they served them. And the Syrians were afraid to offer assistance to the sons of Ammon anymore.
2 Samuel 11:1	Now it happened that, at the turn of the year, in the time when kings usually go forth to war, David sent Joab, and his servants with him, and all of Israel, and they laid waste to the sons of Ammon, and they besieged Rabbah. But David remained in Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 11:2	While these things were taking place, David happened to arise from his bed after midday, and he walked upon the terrace of the king’s house. And he saw, across from his terrace, a woman washing herself. And the woman was very beautiful.
2 Samuel 11:3	Therefore, the king sent and inquired who the woman might be. And it was reported to him that she was Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah, the Hittite.
2 Samuel 11:4	And so, David sent messengers, and he took her. And when she had entered to him, he slept with her. And presently, she was purified from her uncleanness.
2 Samuel 11:5	And she returned to her house, having conceived an unborn child. And sending, she informed David, and she said, “I have conceived.”
2 Samuel 11:6	Then David sent to Joab, saying, “Send me Uriah, the Hittite.” And Joab sent Uriah to David.
2 Samuel 11:7	And Uriah went to David. And David inquired whether Joab was doing well, and about the people, and how the war was being conducted.
2 Samuel 11:8	And David said to Uriah, “Go into your house, and wash your feet.” And Uriah departed from the house of the king. And a meal from the king followed after him.
2 Samuel 11:9	But Uriah slept before the gate of the king’s house, with the other servants of his lord, and he did not go down to his own house.
2 Samuel 11:10	And it was reported to David by some, saying, “Uriah did not go into his house.” And David said to Uriah: “Did you not arrive from a journey? Why did you not go down to your house?”
2 Samuel 11:11	And Uriah said to David: “The ark of God, and Israel and Judah, dwell in tents, and my lord Joab, and the servants of my lord, stay upon the face of the earth. And should I then go into my own house, so that I may eat and drink, and sleep with my wife? By your welfare and by the welfare of your soul, I will not do this thing.”
2 Samuel 11:12	Therefore, David said to Uriah, “Even so, remain here today, and tomorrow I will send you away.” So Uriah remained in Jerusalem, on that day and the next.
2 Samuel 11:13	And David called him, so that he might eat and drink before him, and he made him inebriated. And departing in the evening, he slept on his bedding, with the servants of his lord, and he did not go down to his own house.
2 Samuel 11:14	Therefore, when morning arrived, David wrote a letter to Joab. And he sent it by the hand of Uriah,
2 Samuel 11:15	writing in the letter: “Place Uriah opposite the warfare, where the battle is the strongest, and then abandon him, so that, having been wounded, he may die.”
2 Samuel 11:16	And so, when Joab was besieging the city, he positioned Uriah in the place where he knew the strongest men to be.
2 Samuel 11:17	And the men, departing from the city, made war against Joab. And some of the people among the servants of David fell, and Uriah the Hittite also died.
2 Samuel 11:18	And so, Joab sent and reported to David every word about the battle.
2 Samuel 11:19	And he instructed the messenger, saying: “When you have completed all the words about the war to the king,
2 Samuel 11:20	if you see him to be angry, and if he says: ‘Why did you draw near to the wall in order to fight? Are you ignorant that many darts are thrown from above the wall?
2 Samuel 11:21	Who struck down Abimelech, the son of Jerubbaal? Did not a woman throw a fragment of a millstone upon him from the wall, and so kill him at Thebez? Why did you approach beside the wall?’ then you shall say: ‘Your servant Uriah, the Hittite, also lies dead.’ ”
2 Samuel 11:22	Therefore, the messenger departed. And he went and described to David all that Joab had instructed him.
2 Samuel 11:23	And the messenger said to David: “The men prevailed against us, and they went out to us in the field. Then we pursued them, making an assault, even to the gate of the city.
2 Samuel 11:24	And the archers directed their arrows at your servants from the wall above. And some of the king’s servants died, and then also your servant Uriah the Hittite died.”
2 Samuel 11:25	And David said to the messenger: “You shall say these things to Joab: ‘Do not let this matter dishearten you. For varied are the events of war. Now this one, and now that one, is consumed by the sword. Encourage your warriors against the city and exhort them, so that you may destroy it.’ ”
2 Samuel 11:26	Then the wife of Uriah heard that her husband Uriah had died, and she mourned for him.
2 Samuel 11:27	But when the lamentation was completed, David sent and brought her into his house, and she became his wife, and she bore a son to him. And this word, which David had done, was displeasing in the sight of the Lord.
2 Samuel 12:1	Then the Lord sent Nathan to David. And when he had come to him, he said to him: “Two men were in one city: one wealthy, and the other poor.
2 Samuel 12:2	The wealthy man had very many sheep and oxen.
2 Samuel 12:3	But the poor man had nothing at all, except one little sheep, which he had bought and nourished. And she had grown up before him, together with his children, eating from his bread, and drinking from his cup, and sleeping in his bosom. And she was like a daughter to him.
2 Samuel 12:4	But when a certain traveler had come to the wealthy man, neglecting to take from his own sheep and oxen, so that he might present a feast for that traveler, who had come to him, he took the sheep of the poor man, and he prepared a meal for the man who had come to him.”
2 Samuel 12:5	Then David’s indignation was enraged exceedingly against that man, and he said to Nathan: “As the Lord lives, the man who has done this is a son of death.
2 Samuel 12:6	He shall restore the sheep fourfold, because he did this word, and he did not take pity.”
2 Samuel 12:7	But Nathan said to David: “You are that man. Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: ‘I anointed you as king over Israel, and I rescued you from the hand of Saul.
2 Samuel 12:8	And I gave the house of your lord to you, and the wives of your lord into your bosom. And I gave the house of Israel and of Judah to you. And as if these things were small, I shall add much greater things to you.
2 Samuel 12:9	Therefore, why have you despised the word of the Lord, so that you did evil in my sight? You have struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword. And you have taken his wife as a wife for yourself. And you have put him to death with the sword of the sons of Ammon.
2 Samuel 12:10	For this reason, the sword shall not withdraw from your house, even perpetually, because you have despised me, and you have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite, so that she may be your wife.’
2 Samuel 12:11	And so, thus says the Lord: ‘Behold, I will raise up over you an evil from your own house. And I will take your wives away before your eyes, and I will give them to your neighbor. And he will sleep with your wives in the sight of this sun.
2 Samuel 12:12	For you acted secretly. But I will do this word in the sight of all of Israel, and in the sight of the sun.’ ”
2 Samuel 12:13	And David said to Nathan, “I have sinned against the Lord.” And Nathan said to David: “The Lord has also taken away your sin. You shall not die.
2 Samuel 12:14	Yet truly, because you have given occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme, because of this word, the son who was born to you: dying he shall die.”
2 Samuel 12:15	And Nathan returned to his own house. And the Lord struck the little one, whom the wife of Uriah had borne to David, and he was despaired of.
2 Samuel 12:16	And David begged the Lord on behalf of the little one. And David fasted strictly, and entering alone, he lay upon the ground.
2 Samuel 12:17	Then the elders of his house came, urging him to rise up from the ground. And he was not willing, nor would he eat a meal with them.
2 Samuel 12:18	Then, on the seventh day, it happened that the infant died. And the servants of David were afraid to report to him that the little one had died. For they said: “Behold, when the child was still alive, we were speaking to him, but he would not listen to our voice. How much more will he afflict himself, if we tell him that the boy is dead?”
2 Samuel 12:19	But when David had seen his servants whispering, he realized that the infant had died. And he said to his servants, “Is the child dead?” And they responded to him, “He is dead.”
2 Samuel 12:20	Therefore, David rose up from the ground. And he washed and anointed himself. And when he had changed his clothing, he entered the house of the Lord, and he worshiped. Then he went to his own house, and he asked them to place bread before him, and he ate.
2 Samuel 12:21	But his servants said to him: “What is this word that you have done? You fasted and were weeping, on behalf of the infant, while he was still alive. But when the boy was dead, you arose and ate bread.”
2 Samuel 12:22	And he said: “While he was yet alive, I fasted and wept on behalf of the infant. For I said: Who knows if the Lord may perhaps give him to me, and let the infant live?
2 Samuel 12:23	But now that he is dead, why should I fast? Would I be able to bring him back anymore? Instead, I will go to him. Yet truly, he will not return to me.”
2 Samuel 12:24	And David consoled his wife Bathsheba. And entering to her, he slept with her. And she bore a son, and he called his name Solomon, and the Lord loved him.
2 Samuel 12:25	And he sent, by the hand of Nathan the prophet, and he called his name, Beloved of the Lord, because the Lord loved him.
2 Samuel 12:26	And then Joab fought against Rabbah of the sons of Ammon, and he fought outside the royal city.
2 Samuel 12:27	And Joab sent messengers to David, saying: “I have struggled against Rabbah, and so the City of Waters will soon be seized.
2 Samuel 12:28	Now therefore, gather the remaining portion of the people together, and besiege the city and take it. Otherwise, when the city will have been laid waste by me, the victory will be ascribed to my name.”
2 Samuel 12:29	And so David gathered together all the people, and he set out against Rabbah. And after he had fought, he seized it.
2 Samuel 12:30	And he took the crown of their king from his head. The weight of it was a talent of gold, having the most precious gems. And it was placed upon the head of David. Moreover, he carried away the spoils of the city, which were very many.
2 Samuel 12:31	Also, bringing forth its people, he sawed them, and he drove over them with iron wagons, and he divided them with knives, and he dragged them through brick kilns. So he did to all the citizens of the sons of Ammon. And David returned, with the entire army, to Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 13:1	Now after these things, it happened that Amnon, the son of David, was in love with the very beautiful sister of Absalom, the son of David, and she was called Tamar.
2 Samuel 13:2	And he pined for her exceedingly, so much so that, out of love for her, he became ill. For, since she was a virgin, it seemed a difficulty to him that he would do anything dishonest with her.
2 Samuel 13:3	Now Amnon had a friend named Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, the brother of David: a very prudent man.
2 Samuel 13:4	And he said to him: “Why are you becoming so thin from day to day, O son of the king? Why won’t you tell me?” And Amnon said to him, “I am in love with Tamar, the sister of my brother Absalom.”
2 Samuel 13:5	And Jonadab said to him: “Lie down upon your bed, and feign sickness. And when your father will come to visit you, say to him: ‘I ask you to let my sister Tamar come to me, so that she may give me food, and may make a small meal, so that I may eat it from her hand.’ ”
2 Samuel 13:6	And so, Amnon lay down, and he began to act as if he were ill. And when the king had come to visit him, Amnon said to the king, “I beg you to let my sister Tamar come to me, and make in my sight two little portions of food, so that I take it from her hand.”
2 Samuel 13:7	Therefore, David sent home to Tamar, saying, “Come to the house of your brother Amnon, and make a small meal for him.”
2 Samuel 13:8	And Tamar went into the house of her brother Amnon. But he was lying down. And taking flour, she mixed it. And dissolving it in his sight, she cooked little portions of food.
2 Samuel 13:9	And taking what she had cooked, she poured it out, and she set it before him. But he refused to eat. And Amnon said, “Send everyone away from me.” And when they had sent everyone away,
2 Samuel 13:10	Amnon said to Tamar, “Bring the food into the bedroom, so that I may eat from your hand.” Therefore, Tamar took the little portions of food that she had made, and she brought them to her brother Amnon in the bedroom.
2 Samuel 13:11	And when she had presented the food to him, he took hold of her, and he said, “Come lie with me, my sister.”
2 Samuel 13:12	She answered him: “Do not do so, my brother! Do not force me. For no such thing must be done in Israel. Do not choose to do this senseless act.
2 Samuel 13:13	For I will not be able to bear my shame. And you will be like one of the foolish in Israel. For it is better to speak to the king, and he will not deny me to you.”
2 Samuel 13:14	But he was not willing to agree to her petition. Instead, prevailing by strength, he forced her, and he lay with her.
2 Samuel 13:15	And Amnon held hatred for her with an exceedingly great hatred, so much so that the hatred with which he hated her was greater than the love with which he had loved her before. And Amnon said to her, “Rise up, and go away.”
2 Samuel 13:16	And she answered him, “This evil is greater, which you are now doing against me in driving me away, than what you did before.” But he was not willing to listen to her.
2 Samuel 13:17	Instead, calling the servants who were ministering to him, he said, “Cast this woman out from me, and close the door behind her.”
2 Samuel 13:18	Now she was clothed with an ankle-length robe. For the virgin daughters of the king made use of this kind of garment. And so, his servant cast her out, and he closed the door behind her.
2 Samuel 13:19	And she sprinkled ashes upon her head, and she tore her ankle-length robe. And placing her hands upon her head, she went forth, walking and crying out.
2 Samuel 13:20	Then her brother Absalom said to her: “Has your brother Amnon lain with you? But now, sister, be quiet. For he is your brother. And you should not afflict your heart because of this matter.” And so, Tamar remained, wasting away in the house of her brother Absalom.
2 Samuel 13:21	And when king David had heard about these things, he was deeply grieved. But he was not willing to afflict the spirit of his son Amnon. For he loved him, since he was his firstborn.
2 Samuel 13:22	Yet Absalom did not speak to Amnon, neither good nor evil. For Absalom hated Amnon because he had violated his sister Tamar.
2 Samuel 13:23	Then, after the time of two years, it happened that the sheep of Absalom were being shorn in Baal-hazor, which is near Ephraim. And Absalom invited all the sons of the king.
2 Samuel 13:24	And he went to the king, and he said to him: “Behold, the sheep of your servant are being shorn. I ask that the king, with his servants, may come to his servant.”
2 Samuel 13:25	And the king said to Absalom: “Do not, my son, do not choose to ask that we may all come and be a burden to you.” Then, after he urged him, and he had refused to go, he blessed him.
2 Samuel 13:26	And Absalom said, “If you are not willing to come, I beg you, at least let my brother Amnon come with us.” And the king said to him, “It is not necessary that he go with you.”
2 Samuel 13:27	But Absalom pressed him, and so he sent with him Amnon and all the sons of the king. And Absalom made a feast, like the feast of a king.
2 Samuel 13:28	Then Absalom commanded his servants, saying: “Observe when Amnon will have become drunk with wine. And when I say to you, ‘Strike and kill him!’ do not be afraid. For it is I who commands you. Be strong and valiant men.”
2 Samuel 13:29	Therefore, the servants of Absalom acted against Amnon, just as Absalom had commanded them. And all the sons of the king rose up, and each one climbed upon his mule and fled.
2 Samuel 13:30	And while they were still traveling on the journey, a rumor reached David, saying, “Absalom has struck down all the sons of the king, and there is not one of them remaining.”
2 Samuel 13:31	And so the king rose up, and he tore his garments, and he fell upon the ground. And all his servants, who were standing near him, tore their garments.
2 Samuel 13:32	But Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David’s brother, responding, said: “My lord the king should not consider that all the sons of the king have been slain. Amnon alone is dead. For he was set against by the mouth of Absalom from the day that he raped his sister Tamar.
2 Samuel 13:33	Now therefore, let not my lord the king set this word in his heart, saying, ‘All the sons of the king have been slain.’ For only Amnon is dead.”
2 Samuel 13:34	Now Absalom fled. And the young man keeping watch, lifted up his eyes and gazed out. And behold, many people were arriving along a remote road at the side of the mountain.
2 Samuel 13:35	And Jonadab said to the king: “Behold, the sons of the king are here. In accord with the word of your servant, so it has happened.”
2 Samuel 13:36	And when he had ceased speaking, the sons of the king also appeared. And entering, they lifted up their voice, and they wept. And the king also, and all his servants, wept with an exceedingly great weeping.
2 Samuel 13:37	But Absalom, fleeing, went to Talmai, the son of Ammihud, the king of Geshur. Then David mourned for his son every day.
2 Samuel 13:38	Now after he had fled and had arrived in Geshur, Absalom was in that place for three years.
2 Samuel 13:39	And king David ceased to pursue Absalom, because he had been consoled over the passing of Amnon.
2 Samuel 14:1	Now Joab, the son of Zeruiah, understood that the heart of the king had been turned toward Absalom,
2 Samuel 14:2	so he sent to Tekoa, and he brought from there a wise woman. And he said to her: “Feign that you are in mourning, and put on the clothing of one who mourns. And do not anoint yourself with oil, so that you may be like a woman who is still grieving for someone who died some time ago.
2 Samuel 14:3	And you shall enter to the king, and you shall speak words to him in this manner.” Then Joab put the words in her mouth.
2 Samuel 14:4	And so, when the woman of Tekoa had entered to the king, she fell before him on the ground, and she reverenced, and she said, “Save me, O king.”
2 Samuel 14:5	And the king said to her, “What problem do you have?” And she responded: “Alas, I am a woman who is a widow. For my husband has died.
2 Samuel 14:6	And your handmaid had two sons. And they quarreled against one another in the field. And there was no one there who would be able to stop them. And one struck the other, and killed him.
2 Samuel 14:7	And behold, the whole family, rising up against your handmaid, said: ‘Deliver him who struck down his brother, so that we may kill him for the life of his brother, whom he killed, and so that we may do away with the heir.’ And they are seeking to extinguish my spark that is left, so that there may not survive a name for my husband, nor a remnant upon the earth.”
2 Samuel 14:8	And the king said to the woman, “Go to your own house, and I will make a decree on your behalf.”
2 Samuel 14:9	And the woman of Tekoa said to the king: “May the iniquity be upon me, my lord, and upon the house of my father. But may the king and his throne be innocent.”
2 Samuel 14:10	And the king said, “Whoever will contradict you, bring him to me, and he will never touch you again.”
2 Samuel 14:11	And she said, “Let the king remember the Lord his God, so that close blood relatives may not be multiplied in order to take revenge, and so that they may by no means kill my son.” And he said, “As the Lord lives, not one hair from your son shall fall to the ground.”
2 Samuel 14:12	Then the woman said, “Let your handmaid speak a word to my lord the king.” And he said, “Speak.”
2 Samuel 14:13	And the woman said: “Why have you thought such a thing against the people of God, and why has the king spoken this word, so that he sins and does not lead back the one whom he rejected?
2 Samuel 14:14	We are all dying, and we are all like waters that flow into the ground and do not return. God does not will to lose a soul. Instead, he renews his efforts, thinking that what has been rejected might not perish altogether.
2 Samuel 14:15	Therefore, now I have come to speak this word to my lord the king, in the presence of the people. And your handmaid said: I will speak to the king, for perhaps there may be some way for the king to accomplish the word of his handmaid.
2 Samuel 14:16	And the king listened, and he freed his handmaid from the hand of all who were willing to take away me and my son together, from the inheritance of God.
2 Samuel 14:17	Therefore, let your handmaid speak, so that the word of my lord the king may be like a sacrifice. For even like an Angel of God, so is my lord the king, so that he is moved by neither a blessing, nor a curse. Then too, the Lord your God is with you.”
2 Samuel 14:18	And in response, the king said to the woman, “You shall not conceal from me a word of what I ask you.” And the woman said to him, “Speak, my lord the king.”
2 Samuel 14:19	And the king said, “Is not the hand of Joab with you in all this?” And the woman answered and said: “By the welfare of your soul, my lord the king, it is neither to the left, nor to the right, in all these things that my lord the king has spoken. For your servant Joab himself instructed me, and he himself placed all these words in the mouth of your handmaid.
2 Samuel 14:20	Thus did I turn to this figure of speech, because your servant Joab instructed it. But you, my lord the king, are wise, just as an Angel of God has wisdom, so that you understand all that is upon the earth.”
2 Samuel 14:21	And the king said to Joab: “Behold, your word has succeeded in appeasing me. Therefore, go and call back the boy Absalom.”
2 Samuel 14:22	And falling to the ground upon his face, Joab reverenced, and he blessed the king. And Joab said: “Today your servant has understood that I have found grace in your sight, my lord the king. For you have accomplished the word of your servant.”
2 Samuel 14:23	Then Joab rose up, and he went away to Geshur. And he brought Absalom into Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 14:24	But the king said, “Let him return to his own house, but let him not see my face.” And so, Absalom returned to his own house, but he did not see the face of the king.
2 Samuel 14:25	Now in all of Israel, there was no man so handsome, and so very stately as Absalom. From the sole of the foot to the top of the head, there was no blemish in him.
2 Samuel 14:26	And when he shaved off his hair, for he shaved it off once a year, because his long hair was burdensome to him, he weighed the hair of his head at two hundred shekels, by the public weights.
2 Samuel 14:27	Then three sons were born to Absalom, and one daughter, of elegant form, whose name was Tamar.
2 Samuel 14:28	And Absalom remained for two years in Jerusalem, and he did not see the face of the king.
2 Samuel 14:29	And so, he sent to Joab, so that he might send him to the king. But he refused to come to him. And when he had sent a second time, and he had refused to come to him,
2 Samuel 14:30	he said to his servants: “You know that the field of Joab, the one that is near my field, has a harvest of barley. Therefore, go and set it on fire.” And so, the servants of Absalom set fire to the grain field. And the servants of Joab, arriving with their garments torn, said, “The servants of Absalom have set fire to part of the field!”
2 Samuel 14:31	And Joab rose up, and he went to Absalom at his house, and he said, “Why have your servants set fire to my grain field?”
2 Samuel 14:32	And Absalom responded to Joab: “I sent to you, begging that you might come to me, and that I might send you to the king, and that you might say to him: ‘Why was I brought from Geshur? It would have been better for me to be there.’ I beg you, therefore, that I may see the face of the king. And if he is mindful of my iniquity, let him put me to death.”
2 Samuel 14:33	And so, Joab, entering to the king, reported everything to him. And Absalom was summoned. And he entered to the king, and he reverenced on the face of the earth. And the king kissed Absalom.
2 Samuel 15:1	Then, after these things, Absalom obtained for himself chariots, and horsemen, and fifty men who went before him.
2 Samuel 15:2	And rising up in the morning, Absalom was standing beside the entrance of the gate. And when there was any man who had a dispute that might go before the king’s judgment, Absalom would call him to him, and would say, “Which city are you from?” And responding, he would say, “I am your servant, from a certain tribe of Israel.”
2 Samuel 15:3	And Absalom would answer him: “Your words seem good and just to me. But there is no one appointed by the king to hear you.” And Absalom would say:
2 Samuel 15:4	“Who may appoint me judge over the land, so that all those who have a dispute might come to me, and I might judge justly.”
2 Samuel 15:5	Then too, when a man would draw near to him, so that he might greet him, he would extend his hand, and taking hold of him, he would kiss him.
2 Samuel 15:6	And he was doing this to all those of Israel arriving for judgment to be heard by the king. And he solicited the hearts of the men of Israel.
2 Samuel 15:7	Then, after forty years, Absalom said to king David: “I should go and pay my vows, which I have vowed to the Lord at Hebron.
2 Samuel 15:8	For your servant made a vow, when he was in Geshur of Syria, saying: If the Lord will lead me back to Jerusalem, I will sacrifice to the Lord.”
2 Samuel 15:9	And king David said to him, “Go in peace.” And he rose up and went away to Hebron.
2 Samuel 15:10	They Absalom sent scouts into all the tribes of Israel, saying: “As soon as you hear the blare of the trumpet, say: ‘Absalom reigns in Hebron.’ ”
2 Samuel 15:11	Now having been called, two hundred men from Jerusalem went forth with Absalom, going in simplicity of heart and being entirely ignorant of the plan.
2 Samuel 15:12	Absalom also summoned Ahithophel the Gilonite, a counselor of David, from his city, Giloh. And when he was immolating victims, a very strong oath was sworn, and the people, hurrying together, joined with Absalom.
2 Samuel 15:13	Then a messenger went to David, saying, “With their whole heart, all of Israel is following Absalom.”
2 Samuel 15:14	And David said to his servants, who were with him in Jerusalem: “Rise up, let us flee! For otherwise there will be no escape for us from the face of Absalom. Hurry to depart, lest perhaps, upon arriving, he may seize us, and force ruin upon us, and strike the city with the edge of the sword.”
2 Samuel 15:15	And the servants of the king said to him, “Everything whatsoever that our lord the king will command, we your servants shall carry out willingly.”
2 Samuel 15:16	Therefore, the king departed, with his entire household on foot. And the king left behind ten women of the concubines to care for the house.
2 Samuel 15:17	And having gone forth on foot, the king and all of Israel stood at a distance from the house.
2 Samuel 15:18	And all his servants were walking beside him. And the legions of the Cerethites and Phelethites, and all the Gittites, powerful fighters, six hundred men who had followed him from Gath on foot, were preceding the king.
2 Samuel 15:19	Then the king said to Ittai the Gittite: “Why do you come with us? Return and live with the king. For you are a stranger, and you departed from your own place.
2 Samuel 15:20	You arrived yesterday. And today should you be compelled to go away with us? For I should go to the place where I am going. But you should return, and lead your own brothers back with you. And the Lord will show mercy and truth to you, because you have shown grace and faith.”
2 Samuel 15:21	And Ittai responded to the king, by saying, “As the Lord lives, and as my lord the king lives, in whatever place you will be, my lord the king, whether in death or in life, your servant will be there.”
2 Samuel 15:22	And David said to Ittai, “Come, and pass over.” And Ittai the Gittite passed over, and all the men who were with him, and the rest of the multitude.
2 Samuel 15:23	And they all wept with a great voice, and all the people passed over. The king also passed over the torrent Kidron. And all the people advanced opposite the way which looks out toward the desert.
2 Samuel 15:24	Now Zadok the priest also went, and all the Levites went with him, carrying the ark of the covenant of God. And they set down the ark of God. And Abiathar went up, until all the people who had departed from the city had gone by.
2 Samuel 15:25	And the king said to Zadok: “Carry back the ark of God into the city. If I shall find grace in the sight of the Lord, he will lead me back. And he will show it to me in his tabernacle.
2 Samuel 15:26	But if he will say to me, ‘You are not pleasing,’ I am ready. Let him do whatever is good in his own sight.”
2 Samuel 15:27	And the king said to Zadok the priest: “O seer, return into the city in peace. And let your son Ahimaaz, and Jonathan, the son of Abiathar, your two sons, be with you.
2 Samuel 15:28	Behold, I will hide in the plains of the desert, until word from you may arrive to inform me.”
2 Samuel 15:29	Therefore, Zadok and Abiathar carried back the ark of God into Jerusalem, and they remained there.
2 Samuel 15:30	But David ascended to the Mount of Olives, climbing and weeping, advancing with bare feet and with his head covered. Moreover, all the people who were with him ascended, weeping with their heads covered.
2 Samuel 15:31	Then it was reported to David that Ahithophel also had joined in swearing with Absalom. And David said, “ O Lord, I beg you, to uncover the foolishness of the counsel of Ahithophel.”
2 Samuel 15:32	And when David had ascended to the summit of the mountain, where he was going to adore the Lord, behold Hushai the Archite met him, with his garment torn and his head covered with soil.
2 Samuel 15:33	And David said to him: “If you come with me, you will be a burden to me.
2 Samuel 15:34	But if you return to the city, and you say to Absalom, ‘I am your servant, O king; just as I have been the servant of your father, so too will I be your servant,’ you will destroy the counsel of Ahithophel
2 Samuel 15:35	And you have with you the priests Zadok and Abiathar. And any word whatsoever that you will hear from the house of the king, you shall reveal it to Zadok and Abiathar, the priests.
2 Samuel 15:36	Now with them are their two sons Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok, and Jonathan, the son of Abiathar. And you shall send to me by them every word that you will have heard.”
2 Samuel 15:37	Therefore, Hushai, the friend of David, went into the city. And Absalom also entered into Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 16:1	And when David had passed a little beyond the top of the mountain, Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth, appeared to meet him, with two donkeys, which were burdened with two hundred loaves, and one hundred bunches of dried grapes, and one hundred masses of dried figs, and a skin of wine.
2 Samuel 16:2	And the king said to Ziba, “What do you intend to do with these things?” And Ziba responded: “The donkeys are for the household of the king, so that they may sit. And the loaves and dried figs are for your servants to eat. But the wine is for anyone to drink who may be faint in the desert.”
2 Samuel 16:3	And the king said, “Where is the son of your lord?” And Ziba answered the king: “He remained in Jerusalem, saying, ‘Today, the house of Israel will restore the kingdom of my father to me.’ ”
2 Samuel 16:4	And the king said to Ziba, “All the things which were for Mephibosheth are now yours.” And Ziba said, “I beg you that I may find grace before you, my lord the king.”
2 Samuel 16:5	Then king David went as far as Bahurim. And behold, a man from the kindred of the house of Saul, named Shimei, the son of Gera, went out from there. And going out, he continued on, and he was cursing,
2 Samuel 16:6	and throwing stones against David and against all the servants of king David. And all the people and all the warriors were traveling to the right and to the left sides of the king.
2 Samuel 16:7	And so, as he was cursing the king, Shimei said: “Go away, go away, you man of blood, and you man of Belial!
2 Samuel 16:8	The Lord has repaid you for all the blood of the house of Saul. For you have usurped the kingdom in place of him. And so, the Lord has given the kingdom into the hand of Absalom, your son. And behold, your evils press close upon you, because you are a man of blood.”
2 Samuel 16:9	Then Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, said to the king: “Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go and cut off his head.”
2 Samuel 16:10	And the king said: “What is it to me and to all of you, O sons of Zeruiah? Permit him, so that he may curse. For the Lord has commanded him to curse David. And who is the one who would dare to say, ‘Why has he done so?’ ”
2 Samuel 16:11	And the king said to Abishai and to all his servants: “Behold, my son, who went forth from my loins, is seeking my life. How much more does a son of Benjamin do so now? Permit him, so that he may curse, in accord with the command of the Lord.
2 Samuel 16:12	Perhaps the Lord may look with favor upon my affliction, and the Lord may repay me good, in place of the cursing of this day.”
2 Samuel 16:13	And so, David continued walking along the way, and his associates with him. But Shimei was advancing along the ridge of the mountain on the side opposite him, cursing and throwing stones at him, and scattering dirt.
2 Samuel 16:14	And the king and the entire people with him, being weary, went and refreshed themselves there.
2 Samuel 16:15	But Absalom and all his people entered into Jerusalem. Moreover, Ahithophel was with him.
2 Samuel 16:16	And when Hushai the Archite, David’s friend, had gone to Absalom, he said to him: “May you be well, O king! May you be well, O king!”
2 Samuel 16:17	And Absalom said to him: “Is this your kindness to your friend? Why did you not go with your friend?”
2 Samuel 16:18	And Hushai responded to Absalom: “By no means! For I will be his, whom the Lord has chosen. And I, and all this people, and all of Israel, will remain with him.
2 Samuel 16:19	But then too, I declare this: whom should I serve? Is it not the son of the king? Just as I have been subject to your father, so will I be subject to you also.”
2 Samuel 16:20	Then Absalom said to Ahithophel, “Present a counsel as to what we ought to do.”
2 Samuel 16:21	And Ahithophel said to Absalom: “Enter to the concubines of your father, whom he left behind in order to care for the house. Thus, when all of Israel will hear that you disgraced your father, their hands may be strengthened with you.”
2 Samuel 16:22	Therefore, they spread a tent for Absalom on the rooftop. And he entered to the concubines of his father in the sight of all Israel.
2 Samuel 16:23	Now the counsel of Ahithophel, which he gave in those days, was treated as if one were consulting God. So was every counsel of Ahithophel, both when he was with David, and when he was with Absalom.
2 Samuel 17:1	Then Ahithophel said to Absalom: “I will choose for myself twelve thousand men, and rising up, I will pursue David this night.
2 Samuel 17:2	And rushing against him, for he is weary and has weakened hands, I will strike him. And when all the people who are with him will have fled, I will strike down the king in isolation.
2 Samuel 17:3	And I will lead back the entire people, returning in the manner of one man. For you are seeking only one man. And all the people shall be in peace.”
2 Samuel 17:4	And this word pleased Absalom and all those greater by birth of Israel.
2 Samuel 17:5	But Absalom said, “Summon Hushai the Archite, and let us hear what he also may say.”
2 Samuel 17:6	And when Hushai had gone to Absalom, Absalom said to him: “Ahithophel has spoken a word in this manner. Should we do it or not? What counsel do you give?”
2 Samuel 17:7	And Hushai said to Absalom, “The counsel that Ahithophel has given at this time is not good.”
2 Samuel 17:8	And again Hushai declared, “You know your father, and the men who are with him, to be very strong and bitter in soul, comparable to a bear raging in the forest when her young have been taken away. Moreover, your father is a man of war, and so he will not live among the people.
2 Samuel 17:9	Perhaps now he hides in pits, or in another place, wherever he wills. And if by chance, in the beginning, anyone may fall, whoever hears about it, no matter what he has heard, will say, ‘There is a slaughter among the people who were following Absalom.’
2 Samuel 17:10	And even the very strong, whose heart is like the heart of a lion, will be weakened out of fear. For all the people of Israel know your father to be a valiant man, and that all who are with him are robust.
2 Samuel 17:11	But this seems to me to be the right counsel: Let all of Israel be gathered to you, from Dan to Beersheba, like the sand of the sea which is innumerable. And you will be in their midst.
2 Samuel 17:12	And we shall rush against him in whatever place he will have been found. And we shall cover him, as the dew usually falls upon the ground. And we shall not leave behind even one of the men who are with him.
2 Samuel 17:13	And if he will enter into any city, all of Israel shall encircle that city with ropes. And we will pull it into the torrent, so that there may not be found even one small stone from it.”
2 Samuel 17:14	And Absalom, with all the men of Israel, said: “The counsel of Hushai the Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel.” So, by an act of the Lord, the useful counsel of Ahithophel was defeated, in order that the Lord might lead evil over Absalom.
2 Samuel 17:15	And Hushai said to the priests, Zadok and Abiathar: “Ahithophel gave counsel to Absalom and to the elders of Israel in this and that manner. And I gave counsel in such and such a manner.
2 Samuel 17:16	Now therefore, send quickly, and report to David, saying: ‘You shall not stay this night in the plains of the desert. Instead, without delay, go across. Otherwise the king may be engulfed, and all the people who are with him.’ ”
2 Samuel 17:17	But Jonathan and Ahimaaz remained beside the Fountain of Rogel. And a handmaid went away and reported it to them. And they set out, so that they might carry the report to king David. For they could not be seen, nor enter into the city.
2 Samuel 17:18	But a certain young man saw them, and he revealed it to Absalom. Yet truly, they traveled quickly and entered into the house of a certain man in Bahurim, who had a well in his court, and they descended into it.
2 Samuel 17:19	Then a woman took and spread a covering over the mouth of the well, as if drying hulled barley. And so the matter was hidden.
2 Samuel 17:20	And when the servants of Absalom had entered into the house, they said to the woman, “Where is Ahimaaz and Jonathan?” And the woman responded to them, “They passed through hurriedly, after they had taken a little water.” But those who were seeking them, when they had not found them, returned to Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 17:21	And when they had gone, they ascended from the well. And traveling, they reported to king David, and they said: “Rise up, and go across the river quickly. For Ahithophel has given a counsel of this kind against you.”
2 Samuel 17:22	Therefore, David rose up, and all the people who were with him, and they crossed over the Jordan, until first light. And not even one of them was left behind who had not crossed over the river.
2 Samuel 17:23	Then Ahithophel, seeing that his counsel had not been done, saddled his donkey, and he rose up and went away to his own house and to his own city. And putting his house in order, he killed himself by hanging. And he was buried in the sepulcher of his father.
2 Samuel 17:24	Then David went to the encampment, and Absalom crossed over the Jordan, he and all the men of Israel with him.
2 Samuel 17:25	Truly, Absalom appointed Amasa in place of Joab over the army. Now Amasa was the son of a man who was called Ithra of Jezrael, who entered to Abigail, the daughter of Nahash, the sister of Zeruiah, who was the mother of Joab.
2 Samuel 17:26	And Israel made camp with Absalom in the land of Gilead.
2 Samuel 17:27	And when David had arrived at the encampment, Shobi, the son of Nahash, from Rabbah, of the sons of Ammon, and Machir, the son of Ammiel of Lodebar, and Barzillai, the Gileadite of Rogelim,
2 Samuel 17:28	brought to him bedding, and tapestries, and earthen vessels, and wheat, and barley, and meal, and cooked grain, and beans, and lentils, and fried chick peas,
2 Samuel 17:29	and honey, and butter, sheep and fattened calves. And they gave these to David and to the people who were with him to eat. For they suspected that the people were faint with hunger and thirst in the desert.
2 Samuel 18:1	And so David, having reviewed his people, appointed over them tribunes and centurions.
2 Samuel 18:2	And he placed a third part of the people under the hand of Joab, and a third part under the hand of Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, and a third part under the hand of Ittai, who was from Gath. And the king said to the people, “I, too, will go forth with you.”
2 Samuel 18:3	And the people responded: “You shall not go out. For if we flee, there will not be great concern in them for us. Or if one half part of us will fall, they will not care much. For you are considered as one for ten thousand. Therefore, it is better that you should be in the city to strengthen us.”
2 Samuel 18:4	And the king said to them, “I will do whatever seems good to you.” Therefore, the king stood beside the gate. And the people went out by their troops, by hundreds and by thousands.
2 Samuel 18:5	And the king ordered Joab and Abishai and Ittai, saying, “Preserve for me the boy Absalom.” And all the people heard the king commanding all the leaders on behalf of Absalom.
2 Samuel 18:6	And so, the people departed into the field against Israel. And the battle took place in the forest of Ephraim.
2 Samuel 18:7	And the people of Israel were cut down in that place by the army of David. And a great slaughter occurred on that day: twenty thousand men.
2 Samuel 18:8	Now the battle in that place was dispersed over the face of all the land. And there were many more of the people whom the forest had consumed, than the sword had devoured, on that day.
2 Samuel 18:9	Then it happened that Absalom, riding on a mule, met the servants of David. And when the mule had entered under a thick and large oak tree, his head became trapped in the oak. And while he was suspended between heaven and earth, the mule on which he had been sitting continued on.
2 Samuel 18:10	Then a certain one saw this and reported it to Joab, saying, “I saw Absalom hanging from an oak.”
2 Samuel 18:11	And Joab said to the man who had reported it to him, “If you saw him, why did you not stab him to the ground, and I would have given you ten shekels of silver and a belt?”
2 Samuel 18:12	And he said to Joab: “Even if you weighed out to my hands one thousand silver coins, I would never lay my hands on the son of the king. For in our hearing the king ordered you and Abishai and Ittai, saying, ‘Keep for me the boy Absalom.’
2 Samuel 18:13	Then too, if I had acted with such audacity, against my own life, this would never have been able to be hidden from the king. And would you then have stood by my side?”
2 Samuel 18:14	And Joab said, “It will not be as you wish. Instead, I will be assailing him in your sight.” Then he took three lances in his hand, and he fixed them in the heart of Absalom. And while he was still clinging to life upon the oak,
2 Samuel 18:15	ten young men, armor bearers of Joab, ran up, and striking him, they killed him.
2 Samuel 18:16	Then Joab sounded the trumpet, and he held back the people, lest they pursue Israel in their flight, for he was willing to spare the multitude.
2 Samuel 18:17	And they took Absalom, and they threw him into a great pit in the forest. And they piled an exceedingly great heap of stones over him. But all of Israel fled to their own tents.
2 Samuel 18:18	Now Absalom had raised up for himself, when he was still alive, a monument, which is in the Valley of the King. For he said, “I have no son, and so this shall be the memorial to my name.” And he called the monument by his own name. And it is called the Hand of Absalom, even to this day.
2 Samuel 18:19	Then Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok, said, “I will run and report to the king that the Lord has accomplished judgment for him, from the hand of his enemies.”
2 Samuel 18:20	And Joab said to him: “You shall not be the messenger on this day. Instead, you shall report on another day. I am not willing for you to give the report today, because the son of the king is dead.”
2 Samuel 18:21	Then Joab said to Hushai, “Go, and report to the king what you have seen.” Hushai reverenced Joab, and he ran.
2 Samuel 18:22	And Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok, said to Joab again, “What prevents me from running after Hushai also?” And Joab said to him: “Why do you want to run, my son? You would not be the bearer of good news.”
2 Samuel 18:23	And he responded, “But what if I do run?” And he said to him, “Run.” Then Ahimaaz, running along a shorter way, passed Hushai.
2 Samuel 18:24	Now David was sitting between the two gates. Truly, the watchman, who was at the summit of the gate upon the wall, lifting up his eyes, saw a man running alone.
2 Samuel 18:25	And crying out, he told the king. And the king said, “If he is alone, there is good news in his mouth.” But as he was advancing and drawing nearer,
2 Samuel 18:26	the watchman saw another man running. And so, crying out from the height, he said: “Another man has appeared, running alone.” And the king said, “This one also is a good messenger.”
2 Samuel 18:27	Then the watchman said, “The running of the closest one seems like the running of Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok.” And the king said, “He is a good man, and he arrives bearing good news.”
2 Samuel 18:28	Then, Ahimaaz, crying out, said to the king, “Be well, O king.” And reverencing the king prone on the ground before him, he said, “Blessed be the Lord your God, who has enclosed the men who had lifted up their hands against my lord the king.”
2 Samuel 18:29	And the king said, “Is there peace for the boy Absalom?” And Ahimaaz said: “I saw a great tumult, O king, when your servant Joab sent me, your servant. I know nothing else.”
2 Samuel 18:30	And the king said to him, “Pass, and stand here.” And when he had passed and stood still,
2 Samuel 18:31	Hushai appeared. And approaching, he said: “I bear good news, my lord the king. For today the Lord has judged for you, from the hand of all who had risen up against you.”
2 Samuel 18:32	But the king said to Hushai, “Is there peace for the boy Absalom?” And responding, Hushai said to him, “May the enemies of my lord the king, and all who rise against him for evil, be as the boy is.”
2 Samuel 18:33	And so the king, being greatly saddened, ascended to the upper room of the gate, and he wept. And as he went, he was speaking in this manner: “My son Absalom! Absalom my son! Who can grant to me that I may die on your behalf? Absalom, my son! My son, Absalom!”
2 Samuel 19:1	Now it was reported to Joab that the king was weeping and mourning for his son.
2 Samuel 19:2	And so the victory on that day was turned into mourning for all the people. For the people heard it said on that day, “The king is grieving over his son.”
2 Samuel 19:3	And the people declined to enter the city on that day, in the manner that the people were accustomed to decline if they had turned and fled from battle.
2 Samuel 19:4	And the king covered his head, and he was crying out in a great voice: “My son, Absalom! Absalom, my son, my son!”
2 Samuel 19:5	Therefore, Joab, entering to the king in the house, said: “Today you have shamed the faces of all your servants, who saved your life, and the lives of your sons and your daughters, and the lives of your wives, and the lives of your concubines.
2 Samuel 19:6	You love those who hate you, and you hate those who love you. And you have revealed this day that you have no concern for your leaders and for your servants. And truly, I know now that if Absalom had lived, and if we all had been killed, then it would have pleased you.
2 Samuel 19:7	Now then, rise up and go out, and speak so as to make amends to your servants. For I swear to you by the Lord that if you will not go forth, not even one person will be left with you this night. And this will be worse for you than all the evils that have come to you, from your youth even to the present.”
2 Samuel 19:8	Therefore, the king rose up, and he sat at the gate. And it was announced to all the people that the king was sitting at the gate. And the entire multitude went before the king. But Israel fled to their own tents.
2 Samuel 19:9	And all the people were conflicted, in all the tribes of Israel, saying: “The king has freed us from the hand of our enemies. He himself saved us from the hand of the Philistines. But now he flees from the land for the sake of Absalom.
2 Samuel 19:10	But Absalom, whom we anointed over us, has died in the war. How long will you be silent, and not lead back the king?”
2 Samuel 19:11	Then truly, king David sent to Zadok and Abiathar, the priests, saying: “Speak to those greater by birth of Judah, saying: ‘Why have you arrived last to lead back the king into his house? (For the talk in all of Israel had reached the king in his house.)
2 Samuel 19:12	You are my brothers; you are my bone and my flesh. Why are you the last to lead back the king?’
2 Samuel 19:13	And say to Amasa: ‘Are you not my bone and my flesh? May God do these things, and may he add these other things, if you will not be the leader of the military in my sight, for all time, in the place of Joab.’ ”
2 Samuel 19:14	And he inclined the heart of all the men of Judah, as if one man. And they sent to the king, saying, “Return, you and all your servants.”
2 Samuel 19:15	And the king returned. And he went as far as the Jordan, and all of Judah went as far as Gilgal, so as to meet the king, and to lead him across the Jordan.
2 Samuel 19:16	And Shimei, the son of Gera, the son of Benjamin, from Bahurim, hurried and descended with the men of Judah to meet king David,
2 Samuel 19:17	with one thousand men from Benjamin, and with Ziba, the servant from the house of Saul. And with him were his fifteen sons and twenty servants. And going into the Jordan,
2 Samuel 19:18	they crossed the fords before the king, so that they might lead across the house of the king, and might act in accord with his order. Then, Shimei, the son of Gera, prostrating himself before the king after he had now gone across the Jordan,
2 Samuel 19:19	said to him: “May you not impute to me, my lord, the iniquity, nor call to mind the injuries, of your servant in the day that you, my lord the king, departed from Jerusalem. And may you not store it up in your heart, O king.
2 Samuel 19:20	For as your servant, I acknowledge my sin. And for this reason, today, I arrive as the first from all the house of Joseph, and I descend to meet my lord the king.”
2 Samuel 19:21	Yet truly, Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, responding, said, “Should not Shimei, because of these words, be killed, since he cursed the Christ of the Lord?”
2 Samuel 19:22	And David said: “What is it to me and to all of you, O sons of Zeruiah? Why are you acting toward me this day like Satan? Why should any man be put to death on this day in Israel? Or do you not know that today I have been made king over Israel?”
2 Samuel 19:23	And the king said to Shimei, “You shall not die.” And he swore to him.
2 Samuel 19:24	And Mephibosheth, the son of Saul, descended to meet the king, with unwashed his feet and uncut beard. And he had not washed his garments from the day that the king had departed, until the day of his return in peace.
2 Samuel 19:25	And when he had met the king at Jerusalem, the king said to him, “Why did you not go with me, Mephibosheth?”
2 Samuel 19:26	And in response, he said: “My lord the king, my servant spurned me. And I, your servant, spoke to him so that he might saddle a donkey for me, and I might climb upon it and go with the king. For I, your servant, am lame.
2 Samuel 19:27	Moreover, he also accused me, your servant, to you, my lord the king. But you, my lord the king, are like an Angel of God. Do whatever is pleasing to you.
2 Samuel 19:28	For my father’s house was deserving of nothing but death before my lord the king. Yet you have placed me, your servant, among the guests of your table. Therefore, what just complaint might I have? Or what else can I cry out to the king?”
2 Samuel 19:29	Then the king said to him: “Why are you still speaking? What I have spoken is fixed. You and Ziba shall divide the possessions.”
2 Samuel 19:30	And Mephibosheth responded to the king, “But now let him take it all, since my lord the king has been returned peacefully into his own house.”
2 Samuel 19:31	Likewise, Barzillai the Gileadite, descending from Rogelim, led the king across the Jordan, having prepared also to follow him beyond the river.
2 Samuel 19:32	Now Barzillai the Gileadite was very old, that is, eighty years old. And he provided the king with sustenance when he was staying at the encampment. For indeed, he was an exceedingly rich man.
2 Samuel 19:33	And so the king said to Barzillai, “Come with me, so that you may rest securely with me in Jerusalem.”
2 Samuel 19:34	And Barzillai said to the king: “How many days remain in the years of my life, that I should go up with the king to Jerusalem?
2 Samuel 19:35	Today I am eighty years old. Are my senses quick to discern sweet and bitter? Or is food and drink able to delight your servant? Or can I still hear the voice of men and women singers? Why should your servant be a burden to my lord the king?
2 Samuel 19:36	I, your servant, shall procede a little ways from the Jordan with you. I am not in need of this recompense.
2 Samuel 19:37	But I beg you that I, your servant, may be returned and may die in my own city, and may be buried beside the sepulcher of my father and my mother. But there is your servant Chimham; let him go with you, my lord the king. And do for him whatever seems good to you.”
2 Samuel 19:38	And so the king said to him: “Let Chimham cross over with me, and I will do for him whatever will be pleasing to you. And all that you ask of me, you shall obtain.”
2 Samuel 19:39	And when the entire people and the king had crossed over the Jordan, the king kissed Barzillai, and he blessed him. And he returned to his own place.
2 Samuel 19:40	Then the king went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went with him. Now all the people of Judah had led the king across, but only as much as one half part of the people of Israel were there.
2 Samuel 19:41	And so, all the men of Israel, running to the king, said to him: “Why have our brothers, the men of Judah, stolen you away. And why have they led the king and his house across the Jordan, and all the men of David with him?”
2 Samuel 19:42	And all the men of Judah responded to the men of Israel: “Because the king is nearer to me. Why are you angry over this matter? Have we eaten anything belonging to the king, or have any gifts been given to us?”
2 Samuel 19:43	And the men of Israel responded to the men of Judah, and said: “I have the greater amount, ten parts, with the king, and so David belongs to me more so than to you. Why have you caused me injury, and why was it not announced to me first, so that I might lead back my king?” But the men of Judah answered more firmly than the men of Israel.
2 Samuel 20:1	And it happened that there was, in that place, a man of Belial, whose name was Sheba, the son of Bichri, a man of Benjamin. And he sounded the trumpet, and he said: “There is no portion for us in David, nor any inheritance in the son of Jesse. Return to your own tents, O Israel.”
2 Samuel 20:2	And all of Israel separated from David, and they were following Sheba, the son of Bichri. But the men of Judah clung to their king, from the Jordan as far as Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 20:3	And when the king had entered his house at Jerusalem, he took the ten women concubines, whom he had left behind to care for the house, and he put them into custody, allowing them provisions. But he did not enter to them. Instead, they were enclosed, even until the day of their deaths, living as widows.
2 Samuel 20:4	Then the king said to Amasa, “Summon to me all the men of Judah on the third day, and you shall be present also.”
2 Samuel 20:5	Therefore, Amasa went away, so that he might summon Judah. But he delayed beyond the agreed time that the king had appointed to him.
2 Samuel 20:6	And David said to Abishai: “Now Sheba, the son of Bichri, will afflict us more so than Absalom did. Therefore, take the servants of your lord, and pursue him, otherwise he may find fortified cities, and escape from us.”
2 Samuel 20:7	And so, the men of Joab departed with him, along with the Cherethites and the Pelethites. And all the able-bodied men went out from Jerusalem to pursue Sheba, the son of Bichri.
2 Samuel 20:8	And when they were beside the great stone, which is in Gibeon, Amasa came to meet them. Now Joab was wearing a close-fitting coat of equal length with his garment. And over these, he was girded with a sword hanging down to his thigh, in a scabbard which was made so that the sword could be removed with the least motion, and then strike.
2 Samuel 20:9	Then Joab said to Amasa, “Be well, my brother.” And he held Amasa by the chin with his right hand, as if to kiss him.
2 Samuel 20:10	But Amasa did not notice the sword that Joab had. And he struck him in the side, and his intestines poured out to the ground. And he did not inflict a second wound, and he died. Then Joab and his brother Abishai pursued Sheba, the son of Bichri.
2 Samuel 20:11	Meanwhile, certain men, from the company of Joab, when they had stopped beside the dead body of Amasa, said: “Behold, the one who wished to be in the place of Joab, the companion of David.”
2 Samuel 20:12	Now Amasa was covered with blood, and was lying in the middle of the road. A certain man saw this, with all the people standing nearby to look at him, and he removed Amasa from the road into a field. And he covered him with a garment, so that those passing by would not stop because of him.
2 Samuel 20:13	Then, when he had been removed from the road, all the men continued on, following Joab in the pursuit of Sheba, the son of Bichri.
2 Samuel 20:14	Now he had passed through all the tribes of Israel into Abel and Bethmaacah. And all the elect men had gathered together to him.
2 Samuel 20:15	And so, they went and besieged him at Abel and Bethmaacah. And they surrounded the city with siege works, and the city was blockaded. Then the entire crowd who were with Joab strove to destroy the walls.
2 Samuel 20:16	And a wise woman exclaimed from the city: “Listen, listen, and say to Joab: Draw near, and I will speak with you.”
2 Samuel 20:17	And when he had drawn near to her, she said to him, “Are you Joab?” And he responded, “I am.” And she spoke in this way to him, “Listen to the words of your handmaid.” He responded, “I am listening.”
2 Samuel 20:18	And again she spoke: “A word was said in the old proverb, ‘Those who would inquire, let them inquire in Abel.’ And so they would reach a conclusion.
2 Samuel 20:19	Am I not the one who responds with the truth in Israel? And yet you are seeking to overthrow the city, and to overturn a mother in Israel! Why would you cast down the inheritance of the Lord?”
2 Samuel 20:20	And responding, Joab said: “May this be far, may this be far from me! May I not cast down, and may I not demolish.
2 Samuel 20:21	The matter is not as you said. Rather, a man from mount Ephraim, Sheba, the son of Bichri, by name, has lifted up his hand against king David. Deliver him alone, and we will withdraw from the city.” And the woman said to Joab, “Behold, his head will be thrown down to you from the wall.’
2 Samuel 20:22	Therefore, she entered to all the people, and she spoke to them wisely. And they cut off the head of Sheba, the son of Bichri, and they threw it down to Joab. And he sounded the trumpet, and they withdrew from the city, each one to his own tent. But Joab returned to Jerusalem to the king.
2 Samuel 20:23	Thus Joab was over the entire army of Israel. And Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was over the Cerethites and Phelethites.
2 Samuel 20:24	Yet truly, Adoram was over the tributes. And Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, was the keeper of records.
2 Samuel 20:25	Now Sheva was the scribe. And truly Zadok and Abiathar were the priests.
2 Samuel 20:26	But Ira, the Jairite, was the priest of David.
2 Samuel 21:1	And a famine occurred, during the days of David, for three years continuously. And David consulted the oracle of the Lord. And the Lord said: “This is because of Saul, and his house of bloodshed. For he killed the Gibeonites.”
2 Samuel 21:2	Therefore, the king, calling for the Gibeonites, spoke to them. Now the Gibeonites were not of the sons of Israel, but were the remnant of the Amorites. And the sons of Israel had sworn an oath to them, but Saul wished to strike them in zeal, as if on behalf of the sons of Israel and Judah.
2 Samuel 21:3	Therefore, David said to the Gibeonites: “What shall I do for you? And what shall be your satisfaction, so that you may bless the inheritance of the Lord?”
2 Samuel 21:4	And the Gibeonites said to him: “There is no quarrel for us over silver or gold, but against Saul and against his house. And we do not desire that any man of Israel be put to death.” The king said to them, “Then what do you wish that I should do for you?”
2 Samuel 21:5	And they said to the king: “The man who unjustly afflicted and oppressed us, we ought to destroy in such manner that not even one of his stock may be left behind in all the parts of Israel.
2 Samuel 21:6	Let seven men from his sons be given to us, so that we may crucify them to the Lord in Gibeon of Saul, formerly the chosen place of the Lord.” And the king said, “I will give them.”
2 Samuel 21:7	But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, because of the oath of the Lord which had been made between David and Jonathan, the son of Saul.
2 Samuel 21:8	And so the king took the two sons of Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah, whom she bore to Saul, Armoni and Mephibosheth, and the five sons of Michal, the daughter of Saul, whom she conceived of Adriel, the son of Barzillai, who was from Meholath,
2 Samuel 21:9	and he gave them into the hands of the Gibeonites. And they crucified them on a hill in the sight of the Lord. And these seven fell together in the first days of the harvest, when the barley is beginning to be reaped.
2 Samuel 21:10	Then Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah, taking a haircloth, spread it under herself on a rock, from the beginning of the harvest until water dropped from heaven upon them. And she did not permit the birds to tear them by day, nor the beasts by night.
2 Samuel 21:11	And it was reported to David what Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah, the concubine of Saul, had done.
2 Samuel 21:12	And David went and took the bones of Saul, and the bones of his son Jonathan, from the men of Jabesh Gilead, who had stolen them from the street of Bethshan, where the Philistines had suspended them after they had slain Saul at Gilboa.
2 Samuel 21:13	And he brought the bones of Saul, and the bones of his son Jonathan, from there. And they collected the bones of those who had been crucified.
2 Samuel 21:14	And they buried them with the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan, in the land of Benjamin, to the side of the sepulcher of his father Kish. And they did all that the king had instructed. And after these things, God showed favor again to the land.
2 Samuel 21:15	Then the Philistines again undertook a battle against Israel. And David descended, and his servants with him, and they fought against the Philistines. But when David grew faint,
2 Samuel 21:16	Ishbibenob, who was of the ancestry of Arapha, the iron of whose spear weighed three hundred ounces, who had been girded with a new sword, strove to strike down David.
2 Samuel 21:17	And Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, defended him, and striking the Philistine, he killed him. Then David’s men swore an oath to him, saying, “You shall no longer go out to war with us, lest you extinguish the lamp of Israel.”
2 Samuel 21:18	Also, a second war occurred in Gob against the Philistines. Then Sibbecai from Hushah struck down Saph, from the stock of Arapha, of the ancestry of the giants.
2 Samuel 21:19	Then there was a third war in Gob against the Philistines, in which Adeodatus, a son of the forest, a weaver from Bethlehem, struck down Goliath the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear was like the beam used by a cloth maker.
2 Samuel 21:20	A fourth battle was in Gath. In that place, there was a lofty man, who had six digits on each hand and each foot, that is, twenty-four in all, and he was from the origins of Arapha.
2 Samuel 21:21	And he blasphemed Israel. So Jonathan, the son of Shimei, the brother of David, struck him down.
2 Samuel 21:22	These four men were born of Arapha in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and his servants.
2 Samuel 22:1	And David spoke to the Lord the words of this verse, in the day that the Lord freed him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul.
2 Samuel 22:2	And he said: “The Lord is my rock, and my strength, and my Savior.
2 Samuel 22:3	I will hope in him. God is my strong one, my shield, and the horn of my salvation. He lifts me up, and he is my refreshment. You, O my Savior, will free me from iniquity.
2 Samuel 22:4	I will call upon the Lord, who is praiseworthy; and I will be saved from my enemies.
2 Samuel 22:5	For the pangs of death have encircled me. The torrents of Belial have terrified me.
2 Samuel 22:6	The ropes of Hell have encompassed me. The snares of death have intercepted me.
2 Samuel 22:7	In my tribulation, I will call upon the Lord, and I will cry out to my God. And he will heed my voice from his temple, and my outcry will reach his ears.
2 Samuel 22:8	The earth was shaken, and it quaked. The foundations of the mountains were struck together and violently shaken, because he was angry with them.
2 Samuel 22:9	Smoke ascends from his nostrils, and fire from his mouth will devour; coals have been kindled by it.
2 Samuel 22:10	He bent down the heavens, and it descended; and a fog was beneath his feet.
2 Samuel 22:11	And he climbed upon the cherubim, and he flew; and he slid upon the wings of the wind.
2 Samuel 22:12	He set darkness as a hiding place around himself, with waters sifted from the clouds of the heavens.
2 Samuel 22:13	By means of the brightness of his glance, coals of fire were kindled.
2 Samuel 22:14	The Lord will thunder from heaven; and the Most High will utter his voice.
2 Samuel 22:15	He shot arrows, and he scattered them; lightning, and he consumed them.
2 Samuel 22:16	And the overflow of the sea appeared, and the foundations of the globe were revealed, at the rebuke of the Lord, at the exhale of the breath of his fury.
2 Samuel 22:17	He sent from on high, and he took me up. And he drew me out of many waters.
2 Samuel 22:18	He freed me from my most powerful enemy and from those who had hated me. For they were too strong for me.
2 Samuel 22:19	He went before me in the day of my affliction, and the Lord became my firmament.
2 Samuel 22:20	And he led me out to a wide-open place. He freed me, because I was pleasing to him.
2 Samuel 22:21	The Lord will reward me according to my justice. And he will repay me according to the cleanness of my hands.
2 Samuel 22:22	For I have kept to the ways of the Lord, and I have not acted impiously before my God.
2 Samuel 22:23	For all his judgments are in my sight. And I have not removed his precepts from me.
2 Samuel 22:24	And I shall be perfect with him. And I shall guard myself from my own iniquity.
2 Samuel 22:25	And the Lord will recompense me according to my justice, and according to the cleanness of my hands in the sight of his eyes.
2 Samuel 22:26	With the holy one, you will be holy, and with the strong one, you will be perfect.
2 Samuel 22:27	With the elect one, you will be elect, and with the perverse one, you will be perverse.
2 Samuel 22:28	And you will bring to salvation the poor people, and you will humble the exalted with your eyes.
2 Samuel 22:29	For you are my lamp, O Lord. And you, O Lord, will illuminate my darkness.
2 Samuel 22:30	For in you, I will run girded. In my God, I will leap over the wall.
2 Samuel 22:31	God, his way is immaculate; the eloquence of the Lord is an exacting fire. He is the shield of all who hope in him.
2 Samuel 22:32	Who is God except the Lord? And who is strong except our God?
2 Samuel 22:33	God, he has girded me with fortitude, and he has made my way perfect:
2 Samuel 22:34	making my feet like the feet of the stag, and stationing me upon my exalted places,
2 Samuel 22:35	teaching my hands to do battle, and making my arms like a bow of brass.
2 Samuel 22:36	You have given me the shield of your salvation. And your mildness has multiplied me.
2 Samuel 22:37	You will enlarge my steps under me, and my ankles will not fail.
2 Samuel 22:38	I will pursue my enemies, and crush them. And I will not turn back, until I consume them.
2 Samuel 22:39	I will consume them and break them apart, so that they cannot rise up; they will fall under my feet.
2 Samuel 22:40	You have girded me with strength for the battle. Those who resisted me, you have bent down under me.
2 Samuel 22:41	You have caused my enemies to turn their back to me; they have hatred for me, and I shall destroy them.
2 Samuel 22:42	They will cry out, and there will be no one to save; to the Lord, and he will not heed them.
2 Samuel 22:43	I will wipe them away like the dust of the earth. I will break them apart and crush them, like the mud of the streets.
2 Samuel 22:44	You will save me from the contradictions of my people. You will preserve me to be the head of the Gentiles; a people I do not know shall serve me.
2 Samuel 22:45	The sons of foreigners, who will resist me, at the hearing of the ear they will be obedient to me.
2 Samuel 22:46	The foreigners flowed away, but they will be drawn together in their anguishes.
2 Samuel 22:47	The Lord lives, and my God is blessed. And the strong God of my salvation shall be exalted.
2 Samuel 22:48	God gives me vindication, and he casts down the peoples under me.
2 Samuel 22:49	He leads me away from my enemies, and he lifts me up from those who resist me. You will free me from the iniquitous man.
2 Samuel 22:50	Because of this, I will confess to you, O Lord, among the Gentiles, and I will sing to your name:
2 Samuel 22:51	magnifying the salvation of his king, and showing mercy to David, his Christ, and to his offspring forever.”
2 Samuel 23:1	These are the last words of David. Now David, the son of Jesse, the man to whom it was appointed concerning the Christ of the God of Jacob, the preeminent psalmist of Israel said:
2 Samuel 23:2	“The Spirit of the Lord has spoken through me, and his word was spoken through my tongue.
2 Samuel 23:3	The God of Israel spoke to me, the Strong One of Israel spoke, the Ruler of men, the Just Ruler, in the fear of God,
2 Samuel 23:4	like the first light of the morning as the sun is rising, when a morning without clouds glows red, and like plants springing forth from the earth after a rainfall.
2 Samuel 23:5	But my house is not so great with God that he should undertake an eternal covenant with me, firm and fortified in all things. For he is the entirety of my salvation and the entirety of my will. And there is nothing of this which will not spring forth.
2 Samuel 23:6	But all prevaricators shall be plucked out like thorns, yet they are not taken away by hands.
2 Samuel 23:7	And if anyone wishes to touch them, he must be armed with iron and a wooden lance. And they shall be set ablaze and burned to nothing.”
2 Samuel 23:8	These are the names of the valiant of David. Sitting in the chair was the wisest leader among the three; he was like a very tender little worm in a tree, who killed eight hundred men in one attack.
2 Samuel 23:9	After him, there was Eleazar, the son of his paternal uncle, an Ahohite, who was among the three valiant men who were with David when they chastised the Philistines, and they were gathered together in battle there.
2 Samuel 23:10	And when the men of Israel had gone up, he himself stood fast and struck down the Philistines, until his hand grew weak and stiff with the sword. And the Lord wrought a great salvation on that day. And the people who had fled returned to take up the spoils of the slain.
2 Samuel 23:11	And after him, there was Shammah, the son of Agee, from Hara. And the Philistines gathered together at an outpost. For a field full of lentils was in that place. And when the people had fled from the face of the Philistines,
2 Samuel 23:12	he stood fast in the middle of the field, and it was protected by him. And he struck down the Philistines. And the Lord wrought a great salvation.
2 Samuel 23:13	And moreover, before this, the three who were leaders among the thirty descended and went to David at harvest time, in the cave of Adullam. But the camp of the Philistines was positioned in the Valley of the giants.
2 Samuel 23:14	And David was in a stronghold. Moreover, there was a garrison of the Philistines at that time in Bethlehem.
2 Samuel 23:15	Then David desired, and he said, “If only someone would give me a drink of the water from the cistern, which is in Bethlehem beside the gate!”
2 Samuel 23:16	Therefore, the three valiant men burst into the encampment of the Philistines, and they drew water from the cistern of Bethlehem, which was beside the gate. And they brought it to David. Yet he was not willing to drink; instead, he poured it out to the Lord,
2 Samuel 23:17	saying: “May the Lord be gracious to me, so that I may not do this. Should I drink the blood of these men who have set out to the peril of their own lives?” Therefore, he was not willing to drink. These things were accomplished by these three robust men.
2 Samuel 23:18	Also Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was first among the three. It was he who lifted up his spear against three hundred men, whom he killed. And he was renowned among the three,
2 Samuel 23:19	and he was the noblest of the three, and he was their leader. But at first he did not attain to the three.
2 Samuel 23:20	And Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, a very strong man of great deeds, was from Kabzeel. He slew the two lions of Moab, and he descended and slew a lion in the middle of a den, in the days of snow.
2 Samuel 23:21	He also killed an Egyptian who had a spear in his hand, a man worthy to behold. And yet he had gone down to him with only a staff. And he forced the spear from the hand of the Egyptian, and he killed him with his own spear.
2 Samuel 23:22	Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, accomplished these things.
2 Samuel 23:23	And he was renowned among the three robust men, who were the most noble among the thirty. Yet truly, he did not attain to the three, until David made him his secret advisor.
2 Samuel 23:24	Among the thirty were: Asahel, the brother of Joab, Elhanan, the son of his paternal uncle, from Bethlehem,
2 Samuel 23:25	Shammah from Harod, Elika from Harod,
2 Samuel 23:26	Helez from Palti, Ira, the son of Ikkesh, from Tekoa,
2 Samuel 23:27	Abiezer from Anathoth, Mebunnai from Hushah,
2 Samuel 23:28	Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite,
2 Samuel 23:29	Heleb, the son of Baanah, also himself a Netophathite, Ittai, the son of Ribai, from Gibeah, of the sons of Benjamin,
2 Samuel 23:30	Benaiah the Pirathonite, Hiddai from the Torrent Gaash,
2 Samuel 23:31	Abialbon the Arbathite, Azmaveth from Beromi,
2 Samuel 23:32	Eliahba from Shaalbon; the sons of Jashen, Jonathan,
2 Samuel 23:33	Shammah from Orori, Ahiam, the son of Sharar, the Hararite,
2 Samuel 23:34	Eliphelet, the son of Ahasbai, the son of Maacath, Eliam, the son of Ahithophel, the Gilonite,
2 Samuel 23:35	Hezrai from Carmel, Paarai from Arbi,
2 Samuel 23:36	Igal, the son of Nathan, from Zobah, Bani from Gad,
2 Samuel 23:37	Zelek from Ammon, Naharai the Beerothite, the armor bearer of Joab, the son of Zeruiah,
2 Samuel 23:38	Ira the Ithrite, Gareb also an Ithrite,
2 Samuel 23:39	Uriah the Hittite: altogether thirty seven
2 Samuel 24:1	And the fury of the Lord was again kindled against Israel, and he stirred up David among them, saying: “Go, number Israel and Judah.”
2 Samuel 24:2	And the king said to Joab, the leader of his army, “Travel through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan to Beersheba, and number the people, so that I may know their number.”
2 Samuel 24:3	And Joab said to the king: “May the Lord your God increase your people, who are already great in number, and may he again increase them, one hundredfold, in the sight of my lord the king. But what does my lord the king intend for himself by this kind of thing?”
2 Samuel 24:4	But the words of the king prevailed over the words of Joab and the leaders of the army. And so Joab and the leaders of the military departed from the face of the king, so that they might number the people of Israel.
2 Samuel 24:5	And when they had passed across the Jordan, they arrived at Aroer, to the right of the city, which is in the Valley of Gad.
2 Samuel 24:6	And they continued on through Jazer, into Gilead, and to the lower land of Hodsi. And they arrived in the woodlands of Dan. And going around beside Sidon,
2 Samuel 24:7	they passed near the walls of Tyre, and near all the land of the Hivite and the Canaanite. And they went into the south of Judah, to Beersheba.
2 Samuel 24:8	And having inspected the entire land, after nine months and twenty days, they were present in Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 24:9	Then Joab gave the number of the description of the people to the king. And there were found of Israel eight hundred thousand able-bodied men, who might draw the sword; and of Judah, five hundred thousand fighting men.
2 Samuel 24:10	Then the heart of David struck him, after the people were numbered. And David said to the Lord: “I have sinned greatly in what I have done. But I pray that you, O Lord, may take away the iniquity of your servant. For I have acted very foolishly.”
2 Samuel 24:11	And David rose up in the morning, and the word of the Lord went to Gad, the prophet and seer of David, saying:
2 Samuel 24:12	“Go, and say to David: ‘Thus says the Lord: I present to you a choice of three things. Choose one of these, whichever you will, so that I may do it to you.’ ”
2 Samuel 24:13	And when Gad had gone to David, he announced it to him, saying: “Either seven years of famine will come to you in your land; or you will flee for three months from your adversaries, and they will pursue you; or there will be a pestilence in your land for three days. Now then, deliberate, and see what word I may respond to him who sent me.”
2 Samuel 24:14	Then David said to Gad: “I am in great anguish. But it is better that I should fall into the hands of the Lord (for his mercies are many) than into the hands of men.”
2 Samuel 24:15	And the Lord sent a pestilence upon Israel, from the morning until the appointed time. And there died of the people, from Dan to Beersheba, seventy thousand men.
2 Samuel 24:16	And when the Angel of the Lord had extended his hand over Jerusalem, so that he might destroy it, the Lord took pity on the affliction. And he said to the Angel who was striking the people: “It is enough. Hold back your hand now.” And the Angel of the Lord was beside the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.
2 Samuel 24:17	And when he had seen the Angel cutting down the people, David said to the Lord: “I am the one who sinned. I have acted iniquitously. These ones who are the sheep, what have they done? I beg you that your hand may be turned against me and against my father’s house.”
2 Samuel 24:18	Then Gad went to David on that day, and he said, “Ascend and construct an altar to the Lord on the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.”
2 Samuel 24:19	And David ascended in accord with the word of Gad, which the Lord had commanded to him.
2 Samuel 24:20	And looking out, Araunah turned his attention to the king and his servants, passing toward him.
2 Samuel 24:21	And going out, he adored the king, lying prone with his face to the ground, and he said, “What is the reason that my lord the king has come to his servant?” And David said to him, “So as to purchase the threshing floor from you, and to build an altar to the Lord, and to quiet the plague that rages among the people.”
2 Samuel 24:22	And Araunah said to David: “May my lord the king offer and accept whatever is pleasing to him. You have oxen for a holocaust, and the cart and the yokes of the oxen to use for wood.”
2 Samuel 24:23	All these things Araunah gave, as a king to a king. And Araunah said to the king, “May the Lord your God accept your vow.”
2 Samuel 24:24	And in response, the king said to him: “It shall not be as you wish. Instead, I will purchase it from you at a price. For I will not offer to the Lord, my God, holocausts that cost nothing.” Therefore, David bought the threshing floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver.
2 Samuel 24:25	And in that place, David built an altar to the Lord. And he offered holocausts and peace offerings. And the Lord was gracious to the land, and the plague was held back from Israel.
1 Kings 1:1	Now king David had become elderly, and he had many days in his lifetime. And though he was covered with clothes, he was not warmed.
1 Kings 1:2	Therefore, his servants said to him: “Let us seek, for our lord the king, a young virgin. And let her stand before the king, and warm him, and sleep in his bosom, and provide warmth for our lord the king.”
1 Kings 1:3	And so they sought a beautiful young woman in all the parts of Israel. And they found Abishag, a Shunammite, and they led her to the king.
1 Kings 1:4	Now the girl was exceedingly beautiful. And she slept with the king, and she ministered to him. Yet truly, the king did not know her.
1 Kings 1:5	Then Adonijah, the son of Haggith, exalted himself, saying, “I shall reign!” And he appointed for himself chariots and horsemen, with fifty men who would run before him.
1 Kings 1:6	Neither did his father chastise him at any time, saying, “Why have you done this?” Now he, too, was very beautiful, the second in birth, after Absalom.
1 Kings 1:7	And he conferred with Joab, the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar, the priest, who gave assistance to the side of Adonijah.
1 Kings 1:8	Yet truly, Zadok, the priest, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and Nathan, the prophet, and Shimei and Rei, and the mature men of the army of David were not with Adonijah.
1 Kings 1:9	Then Adonijah, having immolated rams and calves and every kind of fat cattle beside the Stone of the Serpent, which was in the vicinity of the fountain Rogel, summoned all his brothers, the sons of the king, and all the men of Judah, the servants of the king.
1 Kings 1:10	But he did not summon Nathan, the prophet, and Benaiah, and all the mature men, and Solomon, his brother.
1 Kings 1:11	And so Nathan said to Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon: “Have you not heard that Adonijah, the son of Haggith, has begun to reign, and that our lord David is ignorant of this?
1 Kings 1:12	Now then, come, accept my counsel, and save your life and the life of your son Solomon.
1 Kings 1:13	Go and enter to king David, and say to him: ‘Did you not, my lord the king, swear to me, your handmaid, saying: “Your son Solomon shall reign after me, and he himself shall sit on my throne?” Then why does Adonijah reign?’
1 Kings 1:14	And while you are still speaking with the king there, I will enter after you, and I will complete your words.”
1 Kings 1:15	And so Bathsheba entered to the king in the bedroom. Now the king was very old, and Abishag, the Shunammite, was ministering to him.
1 Kings 1:16	Bathsheba bowed herself, and she reverenced the king. And the king said to her, “What do you wish?”
1 Kings 1:17	And responding, she said: “My lord, you swore to your handmaid, by the Lord your God: ‘your son Solomon will reign after me, and he himself shall sit upon my throne.’
1 Kings 1:18	And now behold, Adonijah reigns, while you, my lord the king, are ignorant of it.
1 Kings 1:19	He has slain oxen, and every kind of fattened cattle, and many rams. And he has summoned all the sons of the king, as well as Abiathar, the priest, and Joab, the leader of the military. But Solomon, your servant, he did not summon.
1 Kings 1:20	Truly now, my lord the king, the eyes of all of Israel look with favor upon you, that you may indicate to them who ought to sit upon your throne, my lord the king, after you.
1 Kings 1:21	Otherwise, this will be: when my lord the king sleeps with his fathers, I and my son Solomon will be as sinners.”
1 Kings 1:22	And while she was still speaking with the king, Nathan, the prophet, arrived.
1 Kings 1:23	And they announced to the king, saying, “Nathan, the prophet, is here.” And when he had entered in the sight of the king, and he had reverenced prone on the ground,
1 Kings 1:24	Nathan said: “My lord the king, did you say, ‘Let Adonijah reign after me, and let him sit upon my throne?’
1 Kings 1:25	For today, he descended, and he immolated oxen, and fattened cattle, and many rams. And he summoned all the sons of the king, and the leaders of the army, along with Abiathar, the priest. And they are eating and drinking before him, and saying, ‘As king Adonijah lives.’
1 Kings 1:26	But he did not summon me, your servant, and Zadok, the priest, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and Solomon, your lowly servant.
1 Kings 1:27	Could this word have gone out from my lord the king, and could you not have revealed it to me, your servant, as to who would be seated upon the throne of my lord the king after him?”
1 Kings 1:28	And king David responded, saying, “Summon to me Bathsheba.” And when she had entered before the king, and she had stood before him,
1 Kings 1:29	the king swore and said: “As the Lord lives, who has rescued my soul from all distress,
1 Kings 1:30	just as I swore to you by the Lord God of Israel, saying: ‘Your son Solomon shall reign after me, and he himself shall sit upon my throne in my place,’ so shall I do this day.”
1 Kings 1:31	And Bathsheba, having lowered her face to the ground, reverenced the king, saying, “May my lord David live forever.”
1 Kings 1:32	And king David said, “Summon to me Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada.” And when they had entered before the king,
1 Kings 1:33	he said to them: “Take with you the servants of your lord, and place my son Solomon upon my mule. And lead him to Gihon.
1 Kings 1:34	And let Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, anoint him in that place as the king over Israel. And you shall sound the trumpet, and you shall say, ‘As king Solomon lives.’
1 Kings 1:35	And you shall ascend after him, and he shall arrive and shall sit upon my throne. And he himself shall reign in my place. And I will command that he be the ruler over Israel and over Judah.”
1 Kings 1:36	And Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, responded to the king, saying: “Amen. So says the Lord, the God of my lord the king.
1 Kings 1:37	In the same way that the Lord has been with my lord the king, so may he be with Solomon. And may he make his throne more sublime than the throne of my lord, king David.”
1 Kings 1:38	Then Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, descended, with Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and Pelethites. And they placed Solomon on the mule of king David, and they led him to Gihon.
1 Kings 1:39	And Zadok, the priest, took the horn of oil from the tabernacle, and he anointed Solomon. And they sounded the trumpet. And all the people said, “As king Solomon lives.”
1 Kings 1:40	And the entire multitude ascended after him. And the people were playing on pipes, and rejoicing with great joy. And the earth resounded before the noise of them.
1 Kings 1:41	Then Adonijah, and all who had been summoned by him, heard it. And now the feast had ended. Then, too, Joab, hearing the voice of the trumpet, said, “What is the meaning of this clamor from the tumultuous city?”
1 Kings 1:42	While he was still speaking, Jonathan, the son of Abiathar the priest, arrived. And Adonijah said to him, “Enter, for you are a valiant man, and you report good news.”
1 Kings 1:43	And Jonathan answered Adonijah: “By no means. For our lord king David has appointed Solomon as king.
1 Kings 1:44	And he has sent with him Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and Pelethites. And they have placed him on the mule of the king.
1 Kings 1:45	And Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, have anointed him king, at Gihon. And they are ascending from there, rejoicing, and so the city resounds. This is the noise that you have heard.
1 Kings 1:46	But also, Solomon sits upon the throne of the kingdom.
1 Kings 1:47	And the servants of the king, entering, have blessed our lord king David, saying: ‘May God amplify the name of Solomon above your name, and may he magnify his throne above your throne.’ And the king reverenced from his bed.
1 Kings 1:48	And he said: ‘Blessed is the Lord, the God of Israel, who today has bestowed someone to sit upon my throne, while my eyes may see it.’ ”
1 Kings 1:49	Therefore, all those who had been summoned by Adonijah were terrified. And they all rose up, and each one went his own way.
1 Kings 1:50	Then Adonijah, fearing Solomon, rose up and went away. And he took hold of the horn of the altar.
1 Kings 1:51	And they reported to Solomon, saying: “Behold, Adonijah, fearing king Solomon, has taken hold of the horn of the altar, saying: ‘May king Solomon swear to me this day that he will not put to death his servant with the sword.’ ”
1 Kings 1:52	And Solomon said: “If he is a good man, not so much as one hair of his head shall fall to the ground. But if evil is found in him, he shall die.”
1 Kings 1:53	Therefore, king Solomon sent and brought him from the altar. And entering, he reverenced king Solomon. And Solomon said to him, “Go to your own house.”
1 Kings 2:1	Now the days of David had drawn near, so that he would die, and he instructed his son Solomon, saying:
1 Kings 2:2	“I am entering the way of all the earth. Be strengthened and be a good man.
1 Kings 2:3	And observe the care of the Lord your God, so that you walk in his ways, so that you care for his ceremonies, and his precepts, and judgments, and testimonies, just as it is written in the law of Moses. So may you understand everything that you do, in any direction that you may turn yourself.
1 Kings 2:4	So may the Lord confirm his words, which he has spoken about me, saying: ‘If your sons will guard their ways, and if they will walk before me in truth, with all their heart and with all their soul, there shall not be taken away from you a man on the throne of Israel.’
1 Kings 2:5	Also, you know what Joab, the son of Zeruiah, has done to me, what he did to the two leaders of the army of Israel, to Abner, the son of Ner, and to Amasa, the son of Jether. He killed them, and so he shed the blood of war in peace time, and he set the bloodshed of battle on his belt, which was around his waist, and in his shoes, which were on his feet.
1 Kings 2:6	Therefore, act according to your wisdom. And you shall not allow his gray head to be led away to death in peace.
1 Kings 2:7	Then, too, repay grace to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite. And you shall allow them to eat at your table. For they met me when I fled from the face of Absalom, your brother.
1 Kings 2:8	Also, you have with you Shimei, the son of Gera, the son of Benjamin, from Bahurim, who cursed me with a grievous curse, when I went away to the camp. And he descended to meet me when I crossed over the Jordan, and I swore to him by the Lord, saying, ‘I will not put you to death by the sword,’
1 Kings 2:9	yet do not choose to treat him as if he were innocent. Since you are a wise man, you will know what to do with him. And you shall lead away his grey hair to death with blood.”
1 Kings 2:10	And so, David slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the city of David.
1 Kings 2:11	Now the days during which David reigned over Israel are forty years: he reigned seven years in Hebron, thirty-three in Jerusalem.
1 Kings 2:12	Then Solomon sat upon the throne of his father David, and his kingdom was strengthened exceedingly.
1 Kings 2:13	And Adonijah, the son of Haggith, entered to Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon. And she said to him, “Is your entrance peaceful?” He responded, “It is peaceful.”
1 Kings 2:14	And he added, “My word is for you.” She said to him, “Speak.” And he said:
1 Kings 2:15	“You know that the kingdom was mine, and that all of Israel had preferred me for themselves as king. But the kingdom was transferred, and has become my brother’s. For it was appointed to him by the Lord.
1 Kings 2:16	Now therefore, I beg of you one petition. May you not confound my face.” And she said to him, “Speak.”
1 Kings 2:17	And he said: “I beg that you may speak to king Solomon, for he is not able to refuse anything to you, so that he may give Abishag the Shunammite to me as wife.”
1 Kings 2:18	And Bathsheba said: “It is well. I will speak to the king on your behalf.”
1 Kings 2:19	Then Bathsheba went to king Solomon, so that she might speak to him on behalf of Adonijah. And the king rose up to meet her, and he reverenced her, and he sat down upon his throne. And a throne was stationed for the mother of the king, and she sat at his right hand.
1 Kings 2:20	And she said to him: “I petition one small request from you. May you not confound my face.” And the king said to her: “Ask, my mother. For it is not right that I turn away your face.”
1 Kings 2:21	And she said, “Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah, your brother, as wife.”
1 Kings 2:22	And king Solomon responded, and he said to his mother: “Why do you request Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? Why not request the kingdom for him! For he is my older brother, and he has Abiathar, the priest, and Joab, the son of Zeruiah.”
1 Kings 2:23	And so king Solomon swore by the Lord, saying: “May God do these things to me, and may he add these other things! For Adonijah has spoken this word against his own life.
1 Kings 2:24	And now, as the Lord lives, who has confirmed me and placed me upon the throne of my father David, and who, just as he said, has made a house for me: Adonijah shall be put to death this day.”
1 Kings 2:25	And king Solomon sent by the hand of Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, who put him to death, and so he died.
1 Kings 2:26	Also, the king said to Abiathar, the priest: “Go into Anathoth, to your own land, for you are a man worthy of death. But I will not put you to death this day, since you carried the ark of the Lord God before David, my father, and since you have endured hardship in all the things, for which my father labored.”
1 Kings 2:27	Therefore, Solomon cast out Abiathar, so that he would not be the priest of the Lord, so that the word of the Lord might be fulfilled, which he spoke over the house of Eli at Shiloh.
1 Kings 2:28	And the news came to Joab, for Joab had turned aside after Adonijah, and he had not turned aside after Solomon. And so, Joab fled into the tabernacle of the Lord, and he took hold of the horn of the altar.
1 Kings 2:29	And it was reported to king Solomon that Joab had fled into the tabernacle of the Lord, and that he was beside the altar. And Solomon sent Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, saying, “Go, put him to death.”
1 Kings 2:30	And Benaiah went to the tabernacle of the Lord, and he said to him: “The king says this: ‘Come out.’ ” But he said: “I will not come out. Instead, I will die here.” Benaiah sent word back to the king, saying, “Joab said this, and he responded to me in this way.”
1 Kings 2:31	And the king said to him, “Do just as he has said. And put him to death, and bury him. And so shall you take away the innocent blood, which was shed by Joab, from me and from my father’s house.
1 Kings 2:32	And the Lord shall repay his blood upon his own head. For he killed two men, just and better than himself, and he killed them with the sword, while my father, David, did not know it: Abner, the son of Ner, leader of the military of Israel, and Amasa, the son of Jether, leader of the army of Judah.
1 Kings 2:33	And their blood shall be turned back upon the head of Joab, and upon the head of his offspring forever. But as for David, and his offspring and house, and his throne, may there be peace from the Lord, even unto eternity.”
1 Kings 2:34	And so Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, went up and, attacking him, put him to death. And he was buried in his own house in the desert.
1 Kings 2:35	And the king appointed Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, in his place over the army. And he appointed Zadok, the priest, in place of Abiathar.
1 Kings 2:36	Also, the king sent for and summoned Shimei, and he said to him: “Build a house for yourself in Jerusalem, and live there. And do not depart from that place to here or to there.
1 Kings 2:37	For on whatever day you will have departed and crossed the torrent Kidron, know that you shall be put to death. Your blood will be upon your own head.”
1 Kings 2:38	And Shimei said to the king: “The word is good. Just as my lord the king has said, so will your servant do.” And so Shimei lived in Jerusalem for many days.
1 Kings 2:39	But it happened that, after three years, the servants of Shimei fled to Achish, the son of Maacah, the king of Gath. And it was reported to Shimei that his servants had gone away to Gath.
1 Kings 2:40	And Shimei rose up, and he saddled his donkey. And went away to Achish in Gath, in order to seek his servants. And he led them away from Gath.
1 Kings 2:41	And it was reported to Solomon that Shimei had gone away from Jerusalem to Gath, and had returned.
1 Kings 2:42	And sending, he summoned him, and he said to him: “Did I not testify to you by the Lord, and warn you in advance, ‘On whatever day, having departed, you go forth to here or to there, know that you shall die?’ And you responded to me, ‘The word that I have heard is good.’
1 Kings 2:43	Then why have you not kept the oath to the Lord, and the commandment which I instructed to you?”
1 Kings 2:44	And the king said to Shimei: “You know all the evil, of which your heart is conscious, which you did to David, my father. The Lord has repaid your wickedness upon your own head.”
1 Kings 2:45	And king Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before the Lord, even forever.
1 Kings 2:46	And so the king commanded Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada. And going out, he struck him down, and he died.
1 Kings 3:1	And so the kingdom was confirmed in the hand of Solomon, and he was joined with Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, by affinity. For he took his daughter, and he led her into the city of David, until he completed building his own house, and the house of the Lord, and the wall of Jerusalem all around.
1 Kings 3:2	But still the people immolated in the high places. For no temple had been built to the name of the Lord, even to that day.
1 Kings 3:3	Now Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the precepts of David, his father, except that he immolated in the high places, and he burned incense.
1 Kings 3:4	And so, he went away to Gibeon, so that he might immolate there; for that was the greatest high place. Solomon offered upon that altar, at Gibeon, one thousand victims as holocausts.
1 Kings 3:5	Then the Lord appeared to Solomon, through a dream in the night, saying, “Request whatever you wish, so that I may give it to you.”
1 Kings 3:6	And Solomon said: “You have shown great mercy to your servant David, my father, because he walked in your sight in truth and justice, and with an upright heart before you. And you have kept your great mercy for him, and you have given him a son sitting upon his throne, just as it is this day.
1 Kings 3:7	And now, O Lord God, you have caused your servant to reign in place of David, my father. But I am a small child, and I am ignorant of my entrance and departure.
1 Kings 3:8	And your servant is in the midst of the people that you have chosen, an immense people, who are not able to be numbered or counted because of their multitude.
1 Kings 3:9	Therefore, give to your servant a teachable heart, so that he may be able to judge your people, and to discern between good and evil. For who will be able to judge this people, your people, who are so many?”
1 Kings 3:10	And the word was pleasing before the Lord, that Solomon had requested this kind of thing.
1 Kings 3:11	And the Lord said to Solomon: “Since you have requested this word, and you have not asked for many days or for wealth for yourself, nor for the lives of your enemies, but instead you have requested for yourself wisdom in order to discern judgment:
1 Kings 3:12	behold, I have done for you according to your words, and I have given you a wise and understanding heart, so much so that there has been no one like you before you, nor anyone who will rise up after you.
1 Kings 3:13	But also the things for which you did not ask, I have given to you, namely wealth and glory, so that no one has been like you among the kings in the all days before.
1 Kings 3:14	And if you will walk in my ways, and keep my precepts and my commandments, just as your father walked, I will lengthen your days.”
1 Kings 3:15	Then Solomon awakened, and he understood that it was a dream. And when he had arrived in Jerusalem, he stood before the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and he offered holocausts and made victims of peace offerings, and he held a great feast for all his servants.
1 Kings 3:16	Then two women harlots went to the king, and they stood before him.
1 Kings 3:17	And one of them said: “I beg you, my lord, I and this woman were living in one house, and I gave birth, with her in the room.
1 Kings 3:18	Then, on the third day after I gave birth, she also gave birth. And we were together, with no other person with us in the house, only the two of us.
1 Kings 3:19	Then this woman’s son died in the night. For while sleeping, she smothered him.
1 Kings 3:20	And rising up in the silent depths of the night, she took my son from my side, while I, your handmaid, was sleeping, and she set him in her bosom. Then she placed her dead son in my bosom.
1 Kings 3:21	And when I had arisen in the morning, so that I might give milk to my son, he appeared to be dead. But gazing upon him more diligently in the light of day, I realized that he was not mine, whom I had born.”
1 Kings 3:22	And the other woman responded: “It is not such as you say. Instead, your son is dead, but mine is alive.” To the contrary, she said: “You are lying. For my son lives, and your son is dead.” And in this manner, they were contending before the king.
1 Kings 3:23	Then said the king: “This one says, ‘My son is alive, and your son is dead.’ And the other responds, ‘No, instead your son is dead, but mine lives.’ ”
1 Kings 3:24	Therefore the king said, “Bring a sword to me.” And when they had brought a sword before the king,
1 Kings 3:25	he said, “Divide the living infant in two parts, and give a half part to the one and a half part to the other.”
1 Kings 3:26	But the woman, whose son was alive, said to the king, for her heart was moved concerning her son, “I beg you, my lord, give the living infant to her, and do not kill him.” To the contrary, the other said, “Let it be neither for me, nor for you, instead divide it.”
1 Kings 3:27	The king responded and said: “Give the living infant to this woman, and do not kill it. For she is his mother.”
1 Kings 3:28	Then all of Israel heard about the judgment that the king had judged, and they feared the king, seeing that the wisdom of God was in him to accomplish judgment.
1 Kings 4:1	Now king Solomon was reigning over all of Israel.
1 Kings 4:2	And these were the leaders that he had: Azariah, the son of Zadok, the priest;
1 Kings 4:3	Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha, the scribes; Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, the keeper of records;
1 Kings 4:4	Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, over the army; and Zadok, and Abiathar, priests;
1 Kings 4:5	Azariah, the son of Nathan, over those who were assisting the king; Zabud, the son of Nathan, the priest, the friend of the king;
1 Kings 4:6	and Ahishar, first ruler of the house; and Adoniram, the son of Abda, over the tribute.
1 Kings 4:7	And Solomon had twelve commanders over all of Israel, who offered yearly provisions for the king and his house. For each was ministering the necessities, by each month of the year.
1 Kings 4:8	And these are their names: Benhur, on mount Ephraim;
1 Kings 4:9	Bendeker, in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and in Beth-shemesh, and in Elon, and in Beth-hanan;
1 Kings 4:10	Benhesed, in Arubboth: his was Socoh and the entire land of Hepher;
1 Kings 4:11	Benabinadab, to whom was all of Naphath-Dor, who had Taphath, the daughter of Solomon, as wife;
1 Kings 4:12	Baana, the son of Ahilud, who was reigning in Taanach, and Megiddo, and all of Bethshean, which is beside Zarethan and below Jezreel, from Bethshean as far as Abelmeholah, opposite Jokmeam;
1 Kings 4:13	Bengeber, in Ramoth Gilead, who had the town of Jair, the son of Manasseh, in Gilead; the same was first in the entire region of Argob, which is in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls that had bronze bars;
1 Kings 4:14	Ahinadab, the son of Iddo, who was first in Mahanaim;
1 Kings 4:15	Ahimaaz, in Naphtali, and he also had Basemath, the daughter of Solomon, in marriage;
1 Kings 4:16	Baana, the son of Hushai, in Asher and in Bealoth;
1 Kings 4:17	Jehoshaphat, the son of Paruah, in Issachar;
1 Kings 4:18	Shimei, the son of Ela, in Benjamin;
1 Kings 4:19	Geber, the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, in the land of Sihon, king of the Amorites, and of Og, king of Bashan, over all who were in that land.
1 Kings 4:20	Judah and Israel were innumerable, like the sand of the sea in multitude: eating and drinking, and rejoicing.
1 Kings 4:21	Now Solomon had, in his dominion, all the kingdoms, from the river to the land of the Philistines, even to the border of Egypt. And they offered gifts to him, and they served him all the days of his life.
1 Kings 4:22	And the provisions of Solomon, for each day, were thirty cor of fine wheat flour, and sixty cor of meal,
1 Kings 4:23	ten fattened oxen, and twenty oxen from the pastures, and one hundred rams, aside from the venison of stags, roe deer, and gazelles, and fattened poultry.
1 Kings 4:24	For he had obtained the entire region which was beyond the river, from Tiphsah as far as Gaza, and all the kings of those regions. And he had peace on every side all around.
1 Kings 4:25	And so, Judah and Israel were living without any fear, each one under his own vine and under his own fig tree, from Dan as far as Beersheba, during all the days of Solomon.
1 Kings 4:26	And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of chariot horses, and twelve thousand riding horses.
1 Kings 4:27	And the above-stated commanders of the king nourished these. And they also offered the necessities for the table of king Solomon, with immense diligence, each in his time.
1 Kings 4:28	Also, they brought barley and straw for the horses and beasts of burden, to the place where the king was, just as it was appointed to them.
1 Kings 4:29	And God gave wisdom to Solomon, and an exceedingly great prudence, and a spacious heart, like the sand which is on the shore of the sea.
1 Kings 4:30	And the wisdom of Solomon surpassed the wisdom of all the East, and of the Egyptians.
1 Kings 4:31	And he was wiser than all men: wiser than Ethan, the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol. And he was renowned in all the nations on every side.
1 Kings 4:32	Solomon also spoke three thousand parables. And his verses were one thousand and five.
1 Kings 4:33	And he discoursed about trees, from the cedar which is in Lebanon, to the hyssop which grows out from the wall. And he explained about beasts, and birds, and reptiles, and fish.
1 Kings 4:34	And they came from all the peoples in order to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and from all the kings of the earth, who were hearing about his wisdom.
1 Kings 5:1	Hiram, the king of Tyre, also sent his servants to Solomon. For he heard that they had anointed him king in place of his father. Now Hiram had been a friend to David the entire time.
1 Kings 5:2	Then Solomon sent to Hiram, saying:
1 Kings 5:3	“You know the will of my father David, and that he was not able to build a house to the name of the Lord his God, because of the wars that were imminent all around him, until the Lord set them under the steps of his feet.
1 Kings 5:4	But now the Lord my God has given rest to me on all sides. And there is no adversary, nor occurrence of evil.
1 Kings 5:5	For this reason, I intend to build a temple to the name of the Lord my God, just as the Lord spoke to my father David, saying: ‘Your son, whom I will set in your place, upon your throne, he himself shall build a house to my name.’
1 Kings 5:6	Therefore, order that your servants may cut down for me cedars from Lebanon. And let my servants be with your servants. Then I will give to you, for the wages of your servants, whatever you will ask. For you know that there is not a man among my people who knows how to cut wood as well as the Sidonians.”
1 Kings 5:7	Therefore, when Hiram had heard the words of Solomon, he rejoiced greatly, and he said, “Blessed be the Lord God this day, who gave to David a very wise son over this numerous people!”
1 Kings 5:8	And Hiram sent to Solomon, saying: “I have heard the things that you would entrust to me. And I will do your whole will concerning the cedar trees and spruce trees.
1 Kings 5:9	My servants shall bring them down from Lebanon to the sea. And I will arrange them together as rafts on the sea, as far as the place that you will indicate to me. And I will land them there, and you will take them. And you shall offer to me what is necessary to give food to my house.”
1 Kings 5:10	And so, Hiram gave to Solomon cedar trees and spruce trees, in accord with his whole will.
1 Kings 5:11	Then Solomon offered to Hiram twenty thousand cor of wheat, as food for his house, and twenty cor of the purest oil. These things Solomon gave as a tribute to Hiram every year.
1 Kings 5:12	And the Lord gave wisdom to Solomon, just as he said to him. And there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and the two struck a pact.
1 Kings 5:13	And king Solomon chose workers from all of Israel, and the conscription was of thirty thousand men.
1 Kings 5:14	And he sent them into Lebanon, ten thousand each month, in turns, so that for two months they were in their own houses. And Adoniram was over this type of conscription.
1 Kings 5:15	And Solomon had seventy thousand of those who were carrying burdens, and eighty thousand of those who cut stones from the mountain,
1 Kings 5:16	aside from the commanders who were over each work, in number three thousand and three hundred, who gave orders to the people and to those who were doing the work.
1 Kings 5:17	And the king ordered them to bring great stones, precious stones, for the foundation of the temple, and to square them.
1 Kings 5:18	And these were shaped by the stoneworkers of Solomon and the stoneworkers of Hiram. And the men of Gebal also prepared the wood and the stones in order to build the house.
1 Kings 6:1	Then it happened that, in the four hundred and eightieth year after the sons of Israel departed from the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of the reign of Solomon over Israel, in the month of Ziv, which is the second month, the house of the Lord began to be built.
1 Kings 6:2	Now the house, which king Solomon was building to the Lord, was sixty cubits in length, and twenty cubits in width, and thirty cubits in height.
1 Kings 6:3	And a portico was before the temple, of twenty cubits in length, in accord with the measure of the width of the temple. And it had ten cubits of width before the face of the temple.
1 Kings 6:4	And he made oblique windows in the temple.
1 Kings 6:5	And upon the wall of the temple, he built panels on all sides, in the walls of the house around the temple and the oracle. And he made side chambers all around.
1 Kings 6:6	The flooring on the bottom level held five cubits in width, and the middle floor was six cubits in width, and the third floor held seven cubits in width. Then he positioned beams on the house all around the outside, in such a way that they would not be fastened to the walls of the temple.
1 Kings 6:7	Now the house, while it was being built, was made from cut and finished stones. And so, neither mallet, nor chisel, nor any tool of iron was heard in the house while it was being built.
1 Kings 6:8	The door at the side of the middle section was to the right of the house. And they would ascend along winding stairs to the middle level, and from the middle level to the third level.
1 Kings 6:9	And he built the house, and finished it. And he overlaid the house with boards of cedar.
1 Kings 6:10	And he built a paneling over the entire house, five cubits in height, and he covered the house with cedar wood.
1 Kings 6:11	And the word of the Lord came to Solomon, saying:
1 Kings 6:12	“Concerning this house, which you are building: if you will walk in my precepts, and carry out my judgments, and keep all my commandments, advancing by them, I will confirm my word to you, which I spoke to your father David.
1 Kings 6:13	And I will dwell in the midst of the sons of Israel, and I will not forsake my people Israel.”
1 Kings 6:14	And so, Solomon built the house, and finished it.
1 Kings 6:15	And he built the walls of the house, on the interior, with panels of cedar, from the floor of the house, to the top of the walls, and even to the ceiling. He covered it with cedar wood on the interior. And he overlaid the floor of the house with panels of spruce.
1 Kings 6:16	And he built panels of cedar, of twenty cubits, at the back part of the temple, from the floor even to the top. And he made the inner house of the oracle as the Holy of Holies.
1 Kings 6:17	And the temple itself, before the doors of the oracle, was forty cubits.
1 Kings 6:18	And the entire house was clothed with cedar on the interior, having its turnings and junctures artfully wrought, with carvings projecting outward. Everything was clothed with panels of cedar. And no stone at all was able to be seen in the wall.
1 Kings 6:19	Now he made the oracle in the middle of the house, in the inner part, so that he might station the ark of the covenant of the Lord there.
1 Kings 6:20	And the oracle held twenty cubits in length, and twenty cubits in width, and twenty cubits in height. And he covered and clothed it with the purest gold. Then, too, he clothed the altar in cedar.
1 Kings 6:21	Also, the house before the oracle, he covered with the purest gold, and he fastened the plates with nails of gold.
1 Kings 6:22	And there was nothing in the temple that was not covered with gold. Moreover, the entire altar of the oracle he overlaid with gold.
1 Kings 6:23	And he made in the oracle two cherubim from wood of the olive tree, of ten cubits in height.
1 Kings 6:24	One wing of a cherub was five cubits, and the other wing of a cherub was five cubits, that is, having ten cubits from the summit of one wing even to the summit of the other wing.
1 Kings 6:25	Likewise, the second cherub was ten cubits. And the measure was equal and the work was one, in the two cherubim,
1 Kings 6:26	that is, one cherub had a height of ten cubits, and similarly the second cherub.
1 Kings 6:27	And he stationed the cherubim in the middle of the inner temple. And the cherubim extended their wings, and the wing of the one was touching the wall, and the wing of the second cherub was touching the other wall. But the other wings, in the middle of the temple, were touching each another.
1 Kings 6:28	He also overlaid the cherubim with gold.
1 Kings 6:29	And all the walls of the temple all around he engraved with diverse carvings and turnings. And he made in them cherubim, and palm trees, and various images, as if these were projecting out, and going forth from, the wall.
1 Kings 6:30	Then, too, the floor of the house he overlaid with gold within and without.
1 Kings 6:31	And at the entrance of the oracle, he made little doors, from wood of the olive tree, with posts of five corners.
1 Kings 6:32	And there were two doors, from wood of the olive tree. And he carved upon them pictures of cherubim, and images of palm trees, and very prominent figures. And he overlaid these with gold. And he covered the cherubim, as well as the palm trees and the other things, with gold.
1 Kings 6:33	And he made, at the entrance of the temple, posts from wood of the olive tree, with four corners,
1 Kings 6:34	and two doors, from wood of the spruce tree, on the other side. And each door was double, and so it opened by folding upon itself.
1 Kings 6:35	And he carved cherubim, and palm trees, and very prominent engravings. And he covered everything with gold plates, worked to be perfectly square.
1 Kings 6:36	And he built the inner atrium with three rows of polished stones, and one row of cedar wood.
1 Kings 6:37	In the fourth year, the house of the Lord was founded, in the month of Ziv.
1 Kings 6:38	And in the eleventh year, in the month Bul, which is the eighth month, the house was perfected in all its works and in all its equipment. And he built it for seven years.
1 Kings 7:1	Now Solomon built his own house for thirteen years, and he brought it to perfection.
1 Kings 7:2	And he built the house from the forest of Lebanon: one hundred cubits in length, and fifty cubits in width, and thirty cubits in height, with four walkways between columns of cedar. For he had hewn the cedar trees into columns.
1 Kings 7:3	And he clothed the entire vaulted room with panels of cedar. And it was supported by forty-five columns. Now one row held fifteen columns,
1 Kings 7:4	each positioned opposite another,
1 Kings 7:5	and looking toward one another, with equal spacing between the columns. And above the columns there were square beams equal in all things.
1 Kings 7:6	And he made a portico of columns, fifty cubits in length and thirty cubits in width, and another portico, facing the greater portico, with columns and with crossbeams upon the columns.
1 Kings 7:7	He also made the portico of the throne, in which is the tribunal. And he overlaid it with cedar wood, from the floor even to the summit.
1 Kings 7:8	And in the midst of the portico, there was a small house, where he would sit in judgment, similar in workmanship. He also made a house for the daughter of Pharaoh (whom Solomon had taken as wife) of the same work and type as this portico.
1 Kings 7:9	All was of precious stones, which had been sawed by a particular standard and measure, as much within as without, from the foundation even to the summit of the walls, and outside even to the great atrium.
1 Kings 7:10	Now the foundations were of precious stones: great stones of eight or ten cubits.
1 Kings 7:11	And above these, there were precious stones, of equal measure, which had been cut in a manner similar to boards of cedar.
1 Kings 7:12	And the great atrium was round, with three rows of cut stones and one row of cut cedar, even as it also was in the interior atrium of the house of the Lord, and in the portico of the house.
1 Kings 7:13	And king Solomon sent and brought Hiram of Tyre,
1 Kings 7:14	the son of a widowed woman, from the tribe of Naphtali, whose father was a Tyrian, an artisan in brass, and full of wisdom, and understanding, and knowledge in order to form every work of brass. And when he had gone to king Solomon, he wrought all his work.
1 Kings 7:15	And he cast two columns of brass. Each column was eighteen cubits in height, and a line of twelve cubits encompassed both columns.
1 Kings 7:16	Also, he made two heads of molten brass, which would be set upon the tops of the columns: one head was five cubits in height, and the other head was five cubits in height.
1 Kings 7:17	And there was something like a network of chains, woven together in a wonderful manner. Both heads of the columns were cast, and seven rows of little nets traversed one head, and seven little nets were on the other head.
1 Kings 7:18	And he finished the columns with two rows all around each network, so that these covered the heads, which were at the top, with pomegranates. And he did in like manner to the second head.
1 Kings 7:19	Now the heads that were at the top of the columns, in the portico of four cubits, had been fabricated with a work of lilies.
1 Kings 7:20	And again, there were other heads at the tops of the columns above, in accord with the measure of the column opposite the netting. And there were two hundred of the pomegranates, in rows around the second head.
1 Kings 7:21	And he stationed the two columns in the portico of the temple. And when he had stationed the column on the right, he called its name Jachin. Similarly, he erected the second column, and he called its name Boaz.
1 Kings 7:22	And above the tops of the columns, he set a work in the manner of lilies. And the work of the columns was perfected.
1 Kings 7:23	He also made a molten sea, of ten cubits from brim to brim, rounded on all sides. Its height was five cubits, and a thin rope of thirty cubits wrapped it all around.
1 Kings 7:24	And a sculpted work under the brim encircled it for ten cubits going around the sea. There were two rows cast of striated sculptures.
1 Kings 7:25	And it was standing upon twelve oxen, of which three were looking toward the north, and three toward the west, and three toward the south, and three toward the east. And the sea above was over them. And their posteriors were entirely hidden within.
1 Kings 7:26	And the basin was the thickness of three twelfths. And its brim was like the brim of a chalice, or like the outturned petal of a lily. It contained two thousand baths.
1 Kings 7:27	And he made ten bases of brass: each base was four cubits in length, and four cubits in width, and three cubits in height.
1 Kings 7:28	And the work itself of the bases was engraved; and there were sculptures between the junctures.
1 Kings 7:29	And between the little crowns and the edges, there were lions, and oxen, and cherubim; and similarly in the junctures above. And under the lions and oxen were something like bands of brass hanging down.
1 Kings 7:30	And each base had four wheels, with axels of brass. And at the four sides were something like little arms, under the cast basin, facing away from one another.
1 Kings 7:31	Also, the mouth of the interior of the basin was at the top of the head. And what was visible outside was of one cubit all around, and altogether it had one cubit and a half. Now at the corners of the columns were diverse engravings. And the spaces between the columns were square, not round.
1 Kings 7:32	And the four wheels, which were at the four corners of the base, were joined to one another under the base. The height of one wheel held one cubit and a half.
1 Kings 7:33	Now these were the kind of wheels such as are often made for a chariot. And their axels, and spokes, and tires, and centers were all cast.
1 Kings 7:34	And the four little arms, which were at each corner of a base, were cast and joined together as part of the base itself.
1 Kings 7:35	And at the summit of the base, there was a round stand of one half cubit, fabricated so that the basin could be placed upon it, having its engravings, and various sculptures of its own.
1 Kings 7:36	He also engraved those plates, which were of brass. And at the corners were cherubim, and lions, and palm trees, standing out, as if in the likeness of a man, so that they seemed not to be engraved, but placed adjacent on all sides.
1 Kings 7:37	In this manner, he made ten bases with the same casting and measure, and very similar engravings.
1 Kings 7:38	He also made ten hand basins of brass. One hand basin contained four baths, and was of four cubits. And each basin he set upon a base, which is ten bases.
1 Kings 7:39	And he stationed the ten bases, five to the right side of the temple, and five to the left. And the sea he placed to the right side of the temple, opposite the east, toward the south.
1 Kings 7:40	Then Hiram made cooking pots, and trays, and small hooks. And he completed all the work of king Solomon in the temple of the Lord:
1 Kings 7:41	the two columns, and the two cords of the heads over the tops of the columns, and the two networks which covered the two cords that were above the tops of the columns;
1 Kings 7:42	and the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks, two turnings of pomegranates for each network, in order to cover the cords of the heads, which were above the tops of the columns;
1 Kings 7:43	and the ten bases, and the ten basins on the bases;
1 Kings 7:44	and the one sea, and the twelve oxen under the sea;
1 Kings 7:45	and the cooking pots, and the trays, and the small hooks. All of the items that Hiram made for king Solomon, for the house of the Lord, were of golden brass.
1 Kings 7:46	In the open regions near the Jordan, the king cast these, in the clay soil between Succoth and Zarethan.
1 Kings 7:47	And Solomon positioned all the items. But because of its exceedingly great amount, the brass was not weighed.
1 Kings 7:48	And Solomon made all the furniture for the house of the Lord: the altar of gold, and the table of gold, upon which the bread of the presence would be placed;
1 Kings 7:49	and the gold lampstands, five to the right, and five to the left, opposite the oracle, of pure gold; and likenesses of lily blossoms, with lamps above them, of gold; and gold tongs;
1 Kings 7:50	and waters pots, and little forks, and bowls, and little mortars, and censers, of the purest gold; and the hinges of the doors, for the interior house of the Holy of Holies and for the doors of the house of the temple, which were of gold.
1 Kings 7:51	And Solomon perfected all the work that he was doing in the house of the Lord. And he brought in the things that his father David had sanctified: the silver, and the gold, and the vessels. And he stored these in the treasuries of the house of the Lord.
1 Kings 8:1	Then all those greater by birth of Israel, with the leaders of the tribes and the rulers of the families of the sons of Israel, gathered together before king Solomon at Jerusalem, so that they might carry the ark of the covenant of the Lord, from the city of David, that is, from Zion.
1 Kings 8:2	And all of Israel assembled before king Solomon, on the solemn day in the month of Ethanim, which is the seventh month.
1 Kings 8:3	And all the elders of Israel arrived, and the priests took up the ark.
1 Kings 8:4	And they carried the ark of the Lord, and the tabernacle of the covenant, and all the vessels of the Sanctuary, which were in the tabernacle; and the priests and the Levites carried these.
1 Kings 8:5	Then king Solomon, and the entire multitude of Israel, who had assembled before him, advanced with him before the ark. And they immolated sheep and oxen, which could not be numbered or estimated.
1 Kings 8:6	And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the Lord to its place, into the oracle of the temple, in the Holy of Holies, under the wings of the cherubim.
1 Kings 8:7	For indeed, the cherubim extended their wings over the place of the ark, and they protected the ark and its bars from above.
1 Kings 8:8	And since the bars projected outward, their ends were visible from without, in the Sanctuary before the oracle; but they were not visible farther outward. And they have been in that place even to the present day.
1 Kings 8:9	Now inside the ark, there was nothing other than the two tablets of stone, which Moses had placed in it at Horeb, when the Lord formed a covenant with the sons of Israel, when they departed from the land of Egypt.
1 Kings 8:10	Then it happened that, when the priests had exited from the Sanctuary, a cloud filled the house of the Lord.
1 Kings 8:11	And the priests were unable to stand and minister, because of the cloud. For the glory of the Lord had filled the house of the Lord.
1 Kings 8:12	Then Solomon said: “The Lord has said that he would dwell in a cloud.
1 Kings 8:13	Building, I have built a house as your dwelling place, your most firm throne forever.”
1 Kings 8:14	And the king turned his face, and he blessed the entire assembly of Israel. For the entire assembly of Israel was standing.
1 Kings 8:15	And Solomon said: “Blessed is the Lord, the God of Israel, who spoke with his mouth to my father David, and who, with his own hands, has perfected it, saying:
1 Kings 8:16	‘From the day when I led my people Israel away from Egypt, I did not choose any city out of all the tribes of Israel, so that a house would be built, and so that my name might be there. Instead, I chose David to be over my people Israel.’
1 Kings 8:17	And my father David wanted to build a house to the name of the Lord, the God of Israel.
1 Kings 8:18	But the Lord said to my father David: ‘Since you have planned in your heart to build a house to my name, you have done well by considering this plan in your mind.
1 Kings 8:19	Yet truly, you shall not build a house for me. Instead, your son, who shall go forth from your loins, he himself shall build a house to my name.’
1 Kings 8:20	The Lord has confirmed his word which he spoke. And so I stand in place of my father David, and I sit upon the throne of Israel, just as the Lord said. And I have built a house to the name of the Lord, the God of Israel.
1 Kings 8:21	And there I have appointed a place for the ark, in which is the covenant of the Lord that he struck with our fathers, when they went forth from the land of Egypt.”
1 Kings 8:22	Then Solomon stood before the altar of the Lord, in the sight of the assembly of Israel, and he extended his hands toward heaven.
1 Kings 8:23	And he said: “Lord God of Israel, there is no God like you, in heaven above, nor on the earth below. You preserve covenant and mercy with your servants, who walk before you with all their heart.
1 Kings 8:24	You have fulfilled, for your servant David, my father, that which you said to him. With your mouth, you spoke; and with your hands, you completed; just this day proves.
1 Kings 8:25	Now therefore, O Lord God of Israel, fulfill, for your servant David, my father, that which you spoke to him, saying, ‘There shall not be taken away from you a man before me, who may sit upon the throne of Israel, if only your sons will guard their way, so that they walk before me, just as you have walked in my sight.’
1 Kings 8:26	And now, O Lord God of Israel, establish your words, which you spoke to your servant David, my father.
1 Kings 8:27	Is it, then, to be understood that truly God would dwell upon the earth? For if heaven, and the heavens of heavens, are not able to contain you, how much less this house, which I have built?
1 Kings 8:28	Yet look with favor upon the prayer of your servant and upon his petitions, O Lord, my God. Listen to the hymn and the prayer, which your servant prays before you this day,
1 Kings 8:29	so that your eyes may be open over this house, night and day, over the house about which you said, ‘My name shall be there,’ so that you may heed the prayer that your servant is praying in this place to you.
1 Kings 8:30	So may you heed the supplication of your servant and of your people Israel, whatever they will pray for in this place, and so may you heed them in your dwelling place in heaven. And when you heed, you will be gracious.
1 Kings 8:31	But if any man sins against his neighbor, and he has any kind of an oath by which he is bound, and he arrives because of the oath, before your altar in your house,
1 Kings 8:32	you will hear in heaven, and you will act and judge your servants, condemning the impious, and repaying his own way upon his own head, but justifying the just, and rewarding him in accord with his justice.
1 Kings 8:33	And if your people Israel will have fled from their enemies, because they have sinned against you, and doing penance and confessing to your name, shall arrive and pray and petition you in this house,
1 Kings 8:34	listen in heaven, and forgive the sin of your people Israel, and lead them back to the land, which you gave to their fathers.
1 Kings 8:35	And if the heavens have closed, so that there is no rain, because of their sins, and they, praying in this place, shall do penance to your name, and shall be converted from their sins, by occasion of their afflictions,
1 Kings 8:36	hear them from heaven, and forgive the sins of your servants and of your people Israel. And reveal to them the good way, along which they should walk, and grant rain upon your land, which you have given to your people as a possession.
1 Kings 8:37	Then, if famine rises over the land, or pestilence, or corrupt air, or blight, or locust, or mildew, or if their enemy afflicts them, besieging the gates, or any harm or infirmity,
1 Kings 8:38	or whatever curse or divine intervention may happen to any man among your people Israel, if anyone understands, having been wounded in his heart, and if he will have extended his hands in this house,
1 Kings 8:39	you will hear in heaven, in your dwelling place, and you will forgive. And you will act so that you give to each one in accord with his own ways, just as you see in his heart, for you alone know the heart of all the sons of men.
1 Kings 8:40	So may they fear you, all the days that they live upon the face of the land, which you have given to our fathers.
1 Kings 8:41	Moreover, the foreigner too, who is not of your people Israel, when he will have arrived from a distant land because of your name, for they shall hear about your great name, and your strong hand,
1 Kings 8:42	and your outstretched arm everywhere: so when he arrives and prays in this place,
1 Kings 8:43	you will listen in heaven, in the firmament of your dwelling place. And you will do all the things, for which that foreigner will have called upon you. So may all the peoples of the earth learn to fear your name, just as your people Israel do. And so may they show that your name has been invoked over this house, which I have built.
1 Kings 8:44	And if your people have gone out to war against their enemies, along whatever way you will send them, they shall pray to you in the direction of the city, which you have chosen, and toward the house, which I have built to your name.
1 Kings 8:45	And you will hear in heaven their prayers and their petitions. And you will accomplish judgment for them.
1 Kings 8:46	But if they sin against you, for there is no man who does not sin, and you, being angry, deliver them to their enemies, and they will have been led away as captives to the land of their enemies, whether far or near,
1 Kings 8:47	and if they do penance in their heart, in the place of captivity, and having been converted, make supplication to you in their captivity, saying, ‘We have sinned; we acted unjustly; we committed impiety,’
1 Kings 8:48	and they return to you with all their heart and all their soul, in the land of their enemies, to which they have been led away as captives, and if they pray to you in the direction of their land, which you gave to their fathers, and of the city, which you have chosen, and of the temple, which I have built to your name:
1 Kings 8:49	you will hear in heaven, in the firmament of your throne, their prayers and their petitions. And you will accomplish their judgment.
1 Kings 8:50	And you will forgive your people, who have sinned against you, and all their iniquities, by which they have transgressed against you. And you will grant to them mercy in the sight of those who have made them captives, so that they may take pity on them.
1 Kings 8:51	For they are your people and your inheritance, whom you have led away from the land of Egypt, from the midst of the furnace of iron.
1 Kings 8:52	So may your eyes be open to the supplication of your servant and of your people Israel. And so may you heed them in all the things about which they will call upon you.
1 Kings 8:53	For you have separated them to yourself as an inheritance, from among all the peoples of the earth, just as you spoke by Moses, your servant, when you led our fathers away from Egypt, O Lord God.”
1 Kings 8:54	And it happened that, when Solomon had completed praying this entire prayer and supplication to the Lord, he rose up from the sight of the altar of the Lord. For he had fixed both knees upon the ground, and he had extended his hands toward heaven.
1 Kings 8:55	Then he stood and blessed the entire assembly of Israel in a great voice, saying:
1 Kings 8:56	“Blessed is the Lord, who has given rest to his people Israel, in accord with all that he said. Not even one word, out of all the good things that he spoke by his servant Moses, has fallen away.
1 Kings 8:57	May the Lord our God be with us, just as he was with our fathers, not abandoning us, and not rejecting us.
1 Kings 8:58	But may he incline our hearts to himself, so that we may walk in all his ways, and keep his commandments, and his ceremonies, and whatever judgments he commanded to our fathers.
1 Kings 8:59	And may these my words, by which I have prayed before the Lord, be near to the Lord our God, day and night, so that he may accomplish judgment for his servant and for his people Israel, throughout each day.
1 Kings 8:60	So may all the peoples of the earth know that the Lord himself is God, and there is no other beside him.
1 Kings 8:61	Also, may our hearts be perfect with the Lord our God, so that we may walk in his decrees, and keep his commandments, as also on this day.”
1 Kings 8:62	Then the king, and all of Israel with him, immolated victims before the Lord.
1 Kings 8:63	And Solomon slew sacrifices of peace offerings, which he immolated to the Lord: twenty-two thousand oxen, and twenty thousand one hundred sheep. And the king and all the sons of Israel dedicated the temple of the Lord.
1 Kings 8:64	On that day, the king sanctified the middle of the atrium, which was before the house of the Lord. For in that place, he offered holocaust, and sacrifice, and the fat of peace offerings. For the bronze altar, which was before the Lord, was too small and was not able to hold the holocaust, and the sacrifice, and the fat of the peace offerings.
1 Kings 8:65	Then Solomon made, at that time, a celebratory festival, and all of Israel with him, a great multitude, from the entrance of Hamath to the river of Egypt, in the sight of the Lord our God, for seven days plus seven days, that is, fourteen days.
1 Kings 8:66	And on the eighth day, he dismissed the people. And blessing the king, they set out for their tents, rejoicing and cheerful in heart over all the good things that the Lord had done for his servant David and for his people Israel.
1 Kings 9:1	Now it happened that, when Solomon had perfected the building of the house of the Lord, and the king’s house, and all that he had desired and had willed to do,
1 Kings 9:2	the Lord appeared to him a second time, just as he had appeared to him at Gibeon.
1 Kings 9:3	And the Lord said to him: “I have heard your prayer and your petition, which you prayed before me. I have sanctified this house, which you have built, so that I may place my name there forever, and so that my eyes and my heart will be there for all days.
1 Kings 9:4	Also, if you will walk before me, just as your father walked, in simplicity of heart and in equity, and you do all that I have instructed to you, and you keep my laws and my judgments,
1 Kings 9:5	then I will set the throne of your kingdom over Israel forever, just as I promised your father David, saying: ‘A man from your stock shall not be taken away from the throne of Israel.’
1 Kings 9:6	But if you and your sons, wandering, will have turned away, not following me, and not keeping my commandments and my ceremonies, which I have proposed to you, but instead you go away, and you serve strange gods and adore them,
1 Kings 9:7	then I will take away Israel from the face of the land, which I have given to them. And the temple, which I have sanctified to my name, I will cast out from my sight. And Israel will be a proverb and a parable among all the peoples.
1 Kings 9:8	And this house will become an example: anyone who passes by it will be stupefied, and he will hiss and say, ‘Why has the Lord acted in this way to this land and to this house?’
1 Kings 9:9	And they will respond: ‘Because they abandoned the Lord their God, who led their fathers away from the land of Egypt, and they followed strange gods, and they adored them and served them. For this reason, the Lord led all this evil over them.’ ”
1 Kings 9:10	Then, when twenty years were fulfilled, after Solomon had built the two houses, that is, the house of the Lord, and the house of the king,
1 Kings 9:11	Hiram, the king of Tyre, having supplied Solomon with cedar wood, and spruce wood, and gold, in accord with all that he needed, then Solomon gave Hiram twenty towns in the land of Galilee.
1 Kings 9:12	And Hiram went out of Tyre, so that he might view the towns that Solomon had given to him. And they did not please him.
1 Kings 9:13	And he said, “Are these the cities that you have given to me, brother?” And he called them the land of Cabul, even to this day.
1 Kings 9:14	And Hiram sent to king Solomon one hundred twenty talents of gold.
1 Kings 9:15	This is the sum of the expenses that king Solomon offered for the building of the house of the Lord, and his own house, and for Millo, and the wall of Jerusalem, and Hazor, and Megiddo, and Gezer.
1 Kings 9:16	Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, ascended and seized Gezer, and he burned it with fire. And he put to death the Canaanite who was living in the city, and he gave it as a dowry for his daughter, the wife of Solomon.
1 Kings 9:17	Therefore, Solomon built up Gezer, and lower Beth-horon,
1 Kings 9:18	and Baalath, and Palmira in the land of the wilderness.
1 Kings 9:19	And all the towns which belonged to him, and which were without walls, he walled, along with the cities of the chariots, and the cities of the horsemen, and whatever was pleasing to him that he might build in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in the entire land of his dominion.
1 Kings 9:20	All the people who had remained of the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, who were not of the sons of Israel,
1 Kings 9:21	their sons, who had remained in the land, namely, those whom the sons of Israel had not been able to destroy, Solomon made tributary, even to this day.
1 Kings 9:22	But from the sons of Israel, Solomon did not appoint anyone at all to serve, except the men of war, and his ministers, and leaders, and commanders, and the overseers of the chariots and the horses.
1 Kings 9:23	Now there were five hundred fifty leaders in the first place over all the works of Solomon, and they had people subject to them, and these were given orders for the appointed works.
1 Kings 9:24	And the daughter of Pharaoh went up from the city of David to her house, which Solomon had built for her. Then he built up Millo.
1 Kings 9:25	Also, three times each year, Solomon offered holocausts and victims of peace offerings, upon the altar that he had built to the Lord, and he burned incense before the Lord. And the temple was perfected.
1 Kings 9:26	And king Solomon made a navy at Ezion Geber, which is beside Eloth, on the shores of the Red Sea, in the land of Idumea.
1 Kings 9:27	And Hiram sent his servants to that navy, the sailors and those knowledgeable about the sea, with the servants of Solomon.
1 Kings 9:28	And when they had gone to Ophir, taking from there four hundred twenty talents of gold, they brought it to king Solomon.
1 Kings 10:1	Then, too, the queen of Sheba, having heard of the fame of Solomon in the name of the Lord, arrived to test him with enigmas.
1 Kings 10:2	And entering into Jerusalem with a great retinue, and with riches, and with camels carrying aromatics, and with an exceedingly great quantity of gold and precious stones, she went to king Solomon. And she spoke to him all that she held in her heart.
1 Kings 10:3	And Solomon taught her, in all the words that she had proposed to him. There was not any word which was able to be hidden from the king, or which he did not answer for her.
1 Kings 10:4	Then, when the queen of Sheba saw all the wisdom of Solomon, and the house that he had built,
1 Kings 10:5	and the food of his table, and the dwelling places of his servants, and the rows of his ministers, and their apparel, and the cupbearers, and the holocausts that he was offering in the house of the Lord, she had no longer any spirit in her.
1 Kings 10:6	And she said to the king: “The word is true, which I have heard in my own land,
1 Kings 10:7	about your words and your wisdom. But I did not believe those who explained it to me, until I went myself and saw it with my own eyes. And I have discovered that the half of it has not been told to me: your wisdom and works are greater than the report that I have heard.
1 Kings 10:8	Blessed are your men, and blessed are your servants, who stand before you always, and who hear your wisdom.
1 Kings 10:9	Blessed is the Lord your God, whom you have greatly pleased, and who has placed you upon the throne of Israel. For the Lord loves Israel forever, and he has appointed you as king, so that you may accomplish judgment and justice.”
1 Kings 10:10	Then she gave the king one hundred twenty talents of gold, and an exceedingly great amount of aromatics and precious stones. No greater quantity of aromatics was ever again brought forth as these, which the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon.
1 Kings 10:11	Then, too, the navy of Hiram, which carried gold from Ophir, brought an exceedingly great quantity of thyine wood and precious stones from Ophir.
1 Kings 10:12	And the king made, from the thyine wood, the posts of the house of the Lord, and of the house of the king, and citharas and lyres for the musicians. No thyine trees of this kind were ever again brought forth or seen, even to the present day.
1 Kings 10:13	Then king Solomon gave the queen of Sheba all that she desired and requested of him, aside from what he himself had offered to her from his royal bounty. And she returned and went away to her own land, with her servants.
1 Kings 10:14	Now the weight of the gold that was brought to Solomon each year was six hundred sixty-six talents of gold,
1 Kings 10:15	aside from what was brought to him by the men who were over the tributes, and by the merchants, and by those selling every kind of small item, and by all the kings of Arabia, and by the rulers of the land.
1 Kings 10:16	Also, king Solomon made two hundred large shields from the purest gold. He dispensed six hundred shekels of gold for the layers of one shield.
1 Kings 10:17	And for the three hundred crescent-shaped shields of tested gold, there were three hundred minas of gold covering one shield. And the king placed these in the house of the forest of Lebanon.
1 Kings 10:18	Also, king Solomon made a great throne from ivory. And he clothed it with a great quantity of red gold.
1 Kings 10:19	The throne had six steps, and the summit of the throne was rounded in the back section. And there were two hands, on one side and the other, holding the seat. And two lions were standing beside each hand,
1 Kings 10:20	with twelve little lions standing upon the six steps, on one side and the other. No similar work has been made, ever in any kingdom.
1 Kings 10:21	Moreover, all the vessels from which king Solomon would drink were of gold. And all the items in the house of the forest of Lebanon were of the purest gold. There was no silver, nor was any accounting made of silver in the days of Solomon.
1 Kings 10:22	For the navy of the king, once every three years, went with the navy of Hiram by sea to Tarshish, bringing from there gold, and silver, and elephant tusks, and primates, and peacocks.
1 Kings 10:23	And so, king Solomon was magnified above all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom.
1 Kings 10:24	And all the earth desired to see the face of Solomon, so as to hear his wisdom, which God had granted to his heart.
1 Kings 10:25	And each one brought him gifts, vessels of silver and of gold, clothing and weapons of war, as well as aromatics, and horses, and mules, throughout each year.
1 Kings 10:26	And Solomon gathered together the chariots and horsemen. And he had one thousand four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen. And he placed them in the walled cities, and with the king at Jerusalem.
1 Kings 10:27	And he caused silver to be as abundant in Jerusalem as stones, and he supplied a multitude of cedars like the sycamores that grow in the plains.
1 Kings 10:28	And horses were brought for Solomon from Egypt and from Kue. For the merchants of the king were buying these from Kue. And they paid out the established price.
1 Kings 10:29	Now a four-horse chariot would be sent from Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver, and a horse for one hundred and fifty. And in this manner, all the kings of the Hittites and of Syria were selling horses.
1 Kings 11:1	But king Solomon loved many foreign women, including the daughter of Pharaoh, and women of Moab, and of Ammon, and of Idumea, and of Sidon, and of the Hittites.
1 Kings 11:2	These were of the nations about whom the Lord said to the sons of Israel: “You shall not enter to them, and none of them shall enter to anyone of yours. For they will most certainly turn aside your hearts, so that you follow their gods.” And yet, to these Solomon was joined with a greatly enflamed love.
1 Kings 11:3	And for him, there were seven hundred wives, as if they were queens, and three hundred concubines. And the women turned aside his heart.
1 Kings 11:4	And when now he was old, his heart was perverted by the women, so that he followed strange gods. And his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of his father David.
1 Kings 11:5	For Solomon worshipped Ashtoreth, the goddess of the Sidonians, and Milcom, the idol of the Ammonites.
1 Kings 11:6	And Solomon did what was not pleasing in the sight of the Lord. And he did not continue to follow the Lord, as his father David did.
1 Kings 11:7	Then Solomon built a shrine for Chemosh, the idol of Moab, on the mount that is opposite Jerusalem, and for Milcom, the idol of the sons of Ammon.
1 Kings 11:8	And he acted in this manner for all his foreign wives, who were burning incense and immolating to their gods.
1 Kings 11:9	And so, the Lord became angry with Solomon, because his mind had been turned away from the Lord, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice,
1 Kings 11:10	and who had instructed him about this matter, lest he follow strange gods. But he did not observe what the Lord commanded to him.
1 Kings 11:11	And so, the Lord said to Solomon: “Because you have this with you, and because you have not kept my covenant and my precepts, which I commanded to you, I will tear apart your kingdom, and I will give it to your servant.
1 Kings 11:12	Yet truly, I will not do it in your days, for the sake of your father David. From the hand of your son, I will tear it away.
1 Kings 11:13	Neither will I take away the whole kingdom. Instead, I will grant one tribe to your son, for the sake of David, my servant, and Jerusalem, which I have chosen.”
1 Kings 11:14	Then the Lord raised up an adversary to Solomon, Hadad of Idumea, from an offspring of the king who was in Idumea.
1 Kings 11:15	For when David was in Idumea, Joab, the leader of the military, had ascended to bury those who had been killed, and he had killed every male in Idumea.
1 Kings 11:16	And Joab remained in that place for six months, with all of Israel, until he had put to death every male in Idumea.
1 Kings 11:17	Then Hadad fled, he and some men of Idumea from among the servants of his father with him, so that he might enter into Egypt. But Hadad was then a little boy.
1 Kings 11:18	And when they had risen up from Midian, they went into Paran, and they took with them some men from Paran. And they went into Egypt, to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. And he gave him a house, and he appointed food for him, and he assigned land to him.
1 Kings 11:19	And Hadad found great favor before Pharaoh, so much so that he gave to him as wife, the sister of his own wife, queen Tahpenes.
1 Kings 11:20	And the sister of Tahpenes bore to him a son, Genubath. And Tahpenes raised him in the house of Pharaoh. And Genubath was living with Pharaoh and his sons.
1 Kings 11:21	And when Hadad had heard in Egypt that David had slept with his fathers, and that Joab, the leader of the military, had died, he said to Pharaoh, “Release me, so that I may go to my own land.”
1 Kings 11:22	And Pharaoh said to him, “But what is lacking to you with me, so that you would seek to go to your own land?” But he responded: “Nothing. Yet I beg you that you may release me.”
1 Kings 11:23	Also, God raised up against him an adversary, Rezon, the son of Eliada, who had fled from his lord, Hadad-Ezer, the king of Zobah.
1 Kings 11:24	And he gathered together men against him. And when David put those of Zobah to death, he became a leader of robbers. And they went away to Damascus, and they lived there. And they appointed him to be king of Damascus.
1 Kings 11:25	And he was an adversary to Israel during all the days of Solomon. And such is the evil of Hadad and of his hatred against Israel. And he reigned in Syria.
1 Kings 11:26	Also, there was Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, an Ephraimite from Zeredah, a servant of Solomon, whose mother was named Zeruah, a widowed woman. He lifted up his hand against the king.
1 Kings 11:27	And this is the reason for his rebellion against him: that Solomon built up Millo, and that he filled in a deep hole in the city of David, his father.
1 Kings 11:28	Now Jeroboam was a valiant and powerful man. And perceiving the young man to be ingenious and industrious, Solomon appointed him as first ruler over the tributes of the entire house of Joseph.
1 Kings 11:29	And it happened, in that time, that Jeroboam departed from Jerusalem. And the prophet Ahijah, the Shilonite, wearing with a new cloak, found him on the way. And the two were alone in the field.
1 Kings 11:30	And taking his new cloak, with which he was covered, Ahijah tore it into twelve parts.
1 Kings 11:31	And he said to Jeroboam: “Take ten pieces for yourself. For thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: ‘Behold, I will tear the kingdom from the hand of Solomon, and I will give to you ten tribes.
1 Kings 11:32	Yet one tribe shall remain with him, for the sake of my servant, David, as well as Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel.
1 Kings 11:33	For he has abandoned me, and he has adored Ashtoreth, the goddess of the Sidonians, and Chemosh, the god of Moab, and Milcom, the god of the sons of Ammon. And he has not walked in my ways, so that he would do justice before me, and so that he would carry out my precepts and judgments, as his father David did.
1 Kings 11:34	But I will not take the entire kingdom from his hand. Instead, I will establish him as the ruler during all the days of his life, for the sake of my servant David, whom I chose, who kept my commandments and my precepts.
1 Kings 11:35	But I will take away the kingdom from the hand of his son, and I will give to you ten tribes.
1 Kings 11:36	Then, to his son, I will give one tribe, so that there may remain a lamp for my servant David before me, for all days, in Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen, so that my name would be there.
1 Kings 11:37	And I will take you up, and you shall reign over all that your soul desires. And you shall be king over Israel.
1 Kings 11:38	Therefore, if you will listen to all that I will command you, and if you will walk in my ways, and do what is right in my sight, keeping my commandments and my precepts, just as my servant David did, then I will be with you, and I will build for you a faithful house, in the way that I built a house for David, and I will deliver Israel to you.
1 Kings 11:39	And I will afflict the offspring of David over this, but truly not for all days.’ ”
1 Kings 11:40	Therefore, Solomon wanted to kill Jeroboam. But he rose up and fled away to Egypt, to Shishak, the king of Egypt. And he was in Egypt until the death of Solomon.
1 Kings 11:41	Now the rest of the words of Solomon, and all that he did, and his wisdom: behold, these are all written in the book of the words of the days of Solomon.
1 Kings 11:42	And the days that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem, over all of Israel, were forty years.
1 Kings 11:43	And Solomon slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the city of David, his father. And Rehoboam, his son, reigned in his place.
1 Kings 12:1	Then Rehoboam went to Shechem. For in that place, all of Israel had gathered to appoint him as king.
1 Kings 12:2	Yet truly, Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, while he was still in Egypt as a fugitive from the face of king Solomon, hearing of his death, returned from Egypt.
1 Kings 12:3	And they sent and called him. Therefore, Jeroboam went, with the entire multitude of Israel, and they spoke to Rehoboam, saying:
1 Kings 12:4	“Your father imposed a very harsh yoke upon us. And so, you should now take away a little from the very harsh rule of your father and from his very grievous yoke, which he imposed upon us, and we will serve you.”
1 Kings 12:5	And he said to them, “Go away, until the third day, and then return to me.” And when the people had gone away,
1 Kings 12:6	king Rehoboam took counsel with the elders who had assisted before his father Solomon while he was still living. And he said, “What counsel do you give to me, so that I may respond to this people?”
1 Kings 12:7	They said to him, “If today you will obey and serve this people, and yield to their petition, and if you will speak lenient words to them, they will be your servants for all days.”
1 Kings 12:8	But he abandoned the counsel of the old men, which they had given to him. And he consulted the young men who had been raised with him, and who were assisting him.
1 Kings 12:9	And he said to them: “What counsel do you give to me, so that I may respond to this people, who have said to me: ‘Make light the yoke that your father imposed on us?’ ”
1 Kings 12:10	And the young men who had been raised with him, said: “You shall speak in this way to this people, who have spoken to you, saying: ‘Your father weighed down our yoke. You should relieve us.’ You shall say this to them: ‘My little finger is thicker than the back of my father.
1 Kings 12:11	And now, my father placed a heavy yoke upon you, but I will add more upon your yoke. My father cut you with whips, but I will beat you with scorpions.’ ”
1 Kings 12:12	Therefore, Jeroboam and all the people went to Rehoboam on the third day, just as the king had spoken, saying, “Return to me on the third day.”
1 Kings 12:13	And the king responded to the people harshly, leaving behind the counsel of the elders that they had given to him.
1 Kings 12:14	And he spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying: “My father weighed down your yoke, but I will add more to your yoke. My father cut you with whips, but I will beat you with scorpions.”
1 Kings 12:15	And the king did not acquiesce to the people. For the Lord had turned him away, so that he might raise up his word, which he had spoken by the hand of Ahijah, the Shilonite, to Jeroboam, the son of Nebat.
1 Kings 12:16	And so the people, seeing that the king had not been willing to listen to them, responded to him, saying: “What part do we have in David? Or what inheritance do we have in the son of Jesse? Go to your own tents, O Israel. Now David, see to your own house.” And Israel went away to their own tents.
1 Kings 12:17	But over all the sons of Israel who were living in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned.
1 Kings 12:18	Then king Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was over the tribute. And all of Israel stoned him, and he died. Therefore, king Rehoboam hurrying, climbed into the chariot, and fled to Jerusalem.
1 Kings 12:19	And Israel drew away from the house of David, even to the present day.
1 Kings 12:20	And it happened that, when all of Israel had heard that Jeroboam had returned, gathering an assembly, they sent and called him, and they appointed him as king over all of Israel. And no one followed the house of David, except the tribe of Judah alone.
1 Kings 12:21	Then Rehoboam went to Jerusalem, and he gathered together the entire house of Judah, and the tribe of Benjamin, one hundred and eighty thousand elect men of war, so that they might fight against the house of Israel, and might bring the kingdom back to Rehoboam, the son of Solomon.
1 Kings 12:22	But the word of the Lord came to Shemaiah, the man of God, saying:
1 Kings 12:23	“Speak to Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, the king of Judah, and to all the house of Judah, and to Benjamin, and to the rest of the people, saying:
1 Kings 12:24	‘Thus says the Lord: You shall not go up, and you shall not make war against your brothers, the sons of Israel. Let each man return to his own house. For this word came from me.’ ” And they listened to the word of the Lord, and they returned from the journey, as the Lord had instructed them.
1 Kings 12:25	Then Jeroboam built up Shechem, on mount Ephraim, and he lived there. And departing from there, he built up Penuel.
1 Kings 12:26	And Jeroboam said in his heart: “Now the kingdom will return to the house of David,
1 Kings 12:27	if this people ascend to offer sacrifices in the house of the Lord at Jerusalem. And the heart of this people will be converted to their lord Rehoboam, the king of Judah, and they will put me to death, and return to him.”
1 Kings 12:28	And devising a plan, he made two golden calves. And he said to them: “No longer choose to ascend to Jerusalem. Behold, these are your gods, O Israel, who led you away from the land of Egypt!”
1 Kings 12:29	And he stationed one in Bethel, and the other in Dan.
1 Kings 12:30	And this word became an occasion of sin. For the people went to adore the calf, even to Dan.
1 Kings 12:31	And he made shrines on the high places, and he made priests out of the lowest people, who were not of the sons of Levi.
1 Kings 12:32	And he appointed a solemn day in the eighth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, in imitation of the solemnity that was celebrated in Judah. And ascending to the altar, he acted similarly in Bethel, so that he immolated to the calves, which he had made. And in Bethel, he appointed priests of the high places, which he had made.
1 Kings 12:33	And he ascended to the altar, which he had raised up in Bethel, on the fifteenth day of the eighth month, the day that he had decided in his own heart. And he made a solemnity to the sons of Israel, and he ascended to the altar, so that he might burn incense.
1 Kings 13:1	And behold, by the word of the Lord, a man of God went from Judah to Bethel, when Jeroboam was standing over the altar, and burning incense.
1 Kings 13:2	And by the word of the Lord, he cried out against the altar. And he said: “O altar, O altar! Thus says the Lord: ‘Behold, a son will be born to the house of David, Josiah by name. And upon you, he will immolate the priests of the high places, who now burn incense upon you. And upon you, he will burn up the bones of men.’ ”
1 Kings 13:3	And he gave a sign on the same day, saying: “This will be the sign that the Lord has spoken. Behold, the altar shall be torn apart, and the ashes that are upon it shall be poured out.”
1 Kings 13:4	And when the king had heard the word of the man of God, which he had cried out against the altar at Bethel, he extended his hand from the altar, saying, “Apprehend him!” But his hand, which he had extended against him, withered. And he was unable to draw it back to himself.
1 Kings 13:5	Also, the altar was torn apart, and the ashes were poured out from the altar, in accord with the sign that the man of God had predicted by the word of the Lord.
1 Kings 13:6	And the king said to the man of God, “Entreat the face of the Lord your God, and pray for me, so that my hand may be restored to me.” And the man of God prayed before the face of the Lord, and the hand of the king was restored to him, and it became as it had been before.
1 Kings 13:7	Then the king said to the man of God: “Come home with me, so that you may dine. And I will give you gifts.”
1 Kings 13:8	And the man of God responded to the king: “Even if you will give me one half part of your house, I will not go with you, nor eat bread, nor drink water in this place.
1 Kings 13:9	For so it was commanded to me by the word of the Lord, ordering: ‘You shall not eat bread, and you shall not drink water, nor shall you return by the way that you came.’ ”
1 Kings 13:10	Then he departed by another way, and he did not return along the way that he had traveled to Bethel.
1 Kings 13:11	Now a certain elderly prophet was living in Bethel. His sons went to him, and they described to him all the works which the man of God had accomplished on that day in Bethel. And they described to their father the words that he had spoken to the king.
1 Kings 13:12	And their father said to them, “By which way did he depart?” His sons showed him the way by which the man of God, who had come from Judah, had departed.
1 Kings 13:13	And he said to his sons, “Saddle the donkey for me.” And when they had saddled it, he climbed on,
1 Kings 13:14	and he went away after the man of God. And he found him sitting under a terebinth tree. And he said to him, “Are you the man of God who came from Judah?” And he responded, “I am.”
1 Kings 13:15	And he said to him, “Come home with me, so that you may eat bread.”
1 Kings 13:16	But he said: “I am not able to turn back, nor to go with you. Neither will I eat bread, or drink water in this place.
1 Kings 13:17	For the Lord has spoken to me, by the word of the Lord, saying, “You shall not eat bread, and you shall not drink water in that place, nor shall you return by the way that you arrived.”
1 Kings 13:18	And he said to him: “I, too, am a prophet like you. And an Angel spoke to me, by the word of the Lord, saying, ‘Lead him back with you to your house, so that he may eat bread, and drink water.’ ” And so he deceived him.
1 Kings 13:19	And he led him back with him. Then he ate bread and drank water in his house.
1 Kings 13:20	And while they were sitting at table, the word of the Lord came to the prophet who had led him back.
1 Kings 13:21	And he cried out to the man of God who had arrived from Judah, saying: “Thus says the Lord: Because you were not obedient to the mouth of the Lord, and you did not keep the commandment that the Lord your God instructed to you,
1 Kings 13:22	and you turned back, and ate bread, and drank water in the place where he commanded you that you should not eat bread, nor drink water: your dead body shall not be carried back to the sepulcher of your fathers.”
1 Kings 13:23	And when he had eaten and had drunk, he saddled his donkey for the prophet whom he had led back.
1 Kings 13:24	And when he had departed, a lion found him along the way, and it killed him, and his dead body was left upon the road. Now the donkey was standing beside him. And the lion was standing beside the dead body.
1 Kings 13:25	And behold, men who were passing by saw the dead body lying in the road, with the lion standing beside the body. And they went and made it widely known in the city where that elderly prophet was living.
1 Kings 13:26	And when that prophet, who had led him back from the way, had heard it, he said: “It is the man of God, who was disobedient to the mouth of the Lord. And the Lord has delivered him to the lion. And it has torn him apart and killed him, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he spoke to him.”
1 Kings 13:27	And he said to his sons, “Saddle a donkey for me.” And when they had saddled it,
1 Kings 13:28	and he had departed, he found the dead body lying on the road, with the donkey and the lion standing beside the dead body. The lion did not eat from the dead body, nor did it harm the donkey.
1 Kings 13:29	Then the prophet took the dead body of the man of God, and he placed it upon the donkey, and returning, he brought it into the city of the elderly prophet, so that he might mourn for him.
1 Kings 13:30	And he placed his dead body in his own sepulcher. And they mourned for him, saying: “Alas! Alas! My brother!”
1 Kings 13:31	And when they had mourned over him, he said to his sons: “When I will have died, bury me in the sepulcher in which the man of God was buried. Place my bones beside his bones.
1 Kings 13:32	For certainly, the word will arrived, which he predicted by the word of the Lord, against the altar, which is in Bethel, and against all the shrines of the high places, which are in the cities of Samaria.”
1 Kings 13:33	After these words, Jeroboam did not turn back from his very evil way. Instead, to the contrary, he made priests for the high places out of the least of the people. Whosoever was willing, he filled his hand, and he became a priest of the high places.
1 Kings 13:34	And for this reason, the house of Jeroboam sinned, and was uprooted, and was wiped from the face of the earth.
1 Kings 14:1	In that time Abijah, the son of Jeroboam, became ill.
1 Kings 14:2	And Jeroboam said to his wife: “Rise up, and change clothing, so that you will not be recognized to be the wife of Jeroboam. And go to Shiloh, where the prophet Ahijah is, who said to me that I should reign over this people.
1 Kings 14:3	Also, take in your hand ten loaves, and dried bread, and a container of honey, and go to him. For he will reveal to you what will happen to this boy.”
1 Kings 14:4	The wife of Jeroboam did just as he had said. And rising up, she went away to Shiloh. And she arrived at the house of Ahijah. But he was unable to see, because his eyes had dimmed due to old age.
1 Kings 14:5	Then the Lord said to Ahijah: “Behold, the wife of Jeroboam enters, so that she may consult you over her son, who is ill. You shall say one thing and another to her.” Therefore, as she was entering, not presenting herself to be who she was,
1 Kings 14:6	Ahijah heard the sound of her feet, entering through the door. And he said: “Enter, O wife of Jeroboam. Why do you pretend to be someone you are not? But I have been sent to you with harsh news.
1 Kings 14:7	Go, and tell Jeroboam: ‘Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Although I exalted you from the midst of the people, and I granted to you to be the leader over my people Israel,
1 Kings 14:8	and I tore the kingdom away from the house of David, and I gave it to you, yet you have not been like David, my servant, who kept my commandments, and who followed me with his whole heart, doing what was pleasing in my sight.
1 Kings 14:9	Instead, you have worked evil beyond all those who were before you. And you have made for yourself strange gods and molten images, so that you provoke me to anger. And you have cast me behind your back.
1 Kings 14:10	For this reason, behold, I will lead evils over the house of Jeroboam, and I will strike down from Jeroboam that which urinates against a wall, and that which is lame, and that which is last in Israel. And I will cleanse that which remains of the house of Jeroboam, just as dung is usually cleaned away, until there is purity.
1 Kings 14:11	Those who will have died of Jeroboam in the city, the dogs will devour them. And those who will have died in the field, the birds of the heavens will devour them. For the Lord has spoken.’
1 Kings 14:12	Therefore, you must rise up, and go to your house. And in the city, at the very entrance of your feet, the boy will die.
1 Kings 14:13	And all of Israel will mourn him, and will bury him. For he alone of Jeroboam shall be brought into a sepulcher. For concerning him, there has been found a good word from the Lord, the God of Israel, in the house of Jeroboam.
1 Kings 14:14	But the Lord has appointed for himself a king over Israel, who will strike down the house of Jeroboam, in this day and in this time.
1 Kings 14:15	And the Lord God shall strike Israel, just as a reed is usually shaken in the water. And he will uproot Israel from this good land, which he gave to their fathers. And he will winnow them beyond the river. For they have made for themselves sacred groves, so that they have provoked the Lord.
1 Kings 14:16	And the Lord will hand over Israel, because of the sins of Jeroboam, who has sinned and caused Israel to sin.”
1 Kings 14:17	And so, the wife of Jeroboam rose up, and she went away. And she arrived at Tirzah. And as she was entering the threshold of the house, the boy died.
1 Kings 14:18	And they buried him, and all of Israel mourned for him, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he spoke by the hand of his servant Ahijah, the prophet.
1 Kings 14:19	Now the rest of the words of Jeroboam, the manner in which he fought, and the manner in which he reigned, behold, these were written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel.
1 Kings 14:20	And the days during which Jeroboam reigned were twenty-two years. And he slept with his fathers. And Nadab, his son, reigned in his place.
1 Kings 14:21	Now Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, reigned in Judah. Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he had begun to reign. And he reigned for seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city that the Lord chose, out of all the tribes of Israel, so that he might place his name there. And the name of his mother was Naamah, an Ammonite.
1 Kings 14:22	And Judah did evil in the sight of the Lord, and they provoked him beyond all that their fathers had done, by their sins that they committed.
1 Kings 14:23	For they, too, built for themselves altars, and statues, and sacred groves, upon every high hill and under every leafy tree.
1 Kings 14:24	Moreover, the effeminate were in the land, and they committed all the abominations of the peoples that the Lord had destroyed before the face of the sons of Israel.
1 Kings 14:25	Then, in the fifth year of the reign of Rehoboam, Shishak, the king of Egypt, ascended against Jerusalem.
1 Kings 14:26	And he took away the treasures of the house of the Lord, and the royal treasures, and he plundered everything, including the shields of gold that Solomon had made.
1 Kings 14:27	In place of these, king Rehoboam made shields of brass, and he delivered them into the hand of the commanders of the shield bearers, and of those who were keeping the night watch before the gate of the king’s house.
1 Kings 14:28	And when the king entered into the house of the Lord, these were carried by those who held the office to go before him. And afterward, they carried them back to the armory of the shield bearers.
1 Kings 14:29	Now the rest of the words of Rehoboam, and all that he did, behold, these were written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah.
1 Kings 14:30	And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam, during all the days.
1 Kings 14:31	And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and he was buried with them in the city of David. And his mother’s name was Naamah, an Ammonite. And his son Abijam reigned in his place.
1 Kings 15:1	Then, in the eighteenth year of the reign of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, Abijam reigned over Judah.
1 Kings 15:2	He reigned for three years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Maacah, the daughter of Abishalom.
1 Kings 15:3	And he walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done before him. Neither was his heart perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David, his father.
1 Kings 15:4	But for the sake of David, the Lord his God gave to him a lamp in Jerusalem, so that he might raise up his son after him, and so that he might establish Jerusalem.
1 Kings 15:5	For David had done what was right in the eyes of the Lord, and he had not declined from all of the things that he had instructed to him, during all the days of his life, except the matter of Uriah, the Hittite.
1 Kings 15:6	Now there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam during the entire time of his life.
1 Kings 15:7	And the rest of the words of Abijam, and all that he did, were these not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah? And there was fighting between Abijam and Jeroboam.
1 Kings 15:8	And Abijam slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David. And Asa, his son, reigned in his place.
1 Kings 15:9	Then, in the twentieth year of Jeroboam, the king of Israel, Asa reigned as king of Judah.
1 Kings 15:10	And he reigned for forty-one years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Maacah, the daughter of Abishalom.
1 Kings 15:11	And Asa did what was right before the sight of the Lord, just as his father David did.
1 Kings 15:12	And he took away the effeminate from the land. And he purged all the filth of the idols, which his fathers had made.
1 Kings 15:13	Moreover, he also removed his mother, Maacah, from being the leader in the sacrifices of Priapus, and in his sacred grove which she had consecrated. And he destroyed his grotto. And he shattered the very indecent idol, and he burned it at the torrent Kidron.
1 Kings 15:14	But the high places, he did not take away. Yet truly, the heart of Asa was perfect with the Lord during all his days.
1 Kings 15:15	And he brought the things that his father had sanctified and vowed back to the house of the Lord: the silver, and the gold, and the vessels.
1 Kings 15:16	Now there was war between Asa and Baasha, the king of Israel, during all their days.
1 Kings 15:17	And Baasha, the king of Israel, ascended against Judah. And he built up Ramah, so that no one would be able to exit or enter from the side of Asa, the king of Judah.
1 Kings 15:18	And so, Asa took all the silver and the gold which had remained in the treasuries of the house of the Lord, and in the treasuries of the house of the king, and he gave it into the hands of his servants. And he sent them to Benhadad, the son of Tabrimmon, the son of Hezion, the king of Syria, who was living in Damascus, saying:
1 Kings 15:19	“There is a pact between me and you, and between my father and your father. For this reason, I have sent to you gifts of silver and of gold. And I ask you to go and break your pact with Baasha, the king of Israel, so that he may withdraw from me.”
1 Kings 15:20	Benhadad, acquiescing to king Asa, sent the leaders of his army against the cities of Israel. And they struck Ijon, and Dan, and Abel, the house of Maacah, and all of Chinneroth, that is, all the land of Naphtali.
1 Kings 15:21	And when Baasha had heard this, he ceased from fortifying Ramah, and he returned to Tirzah.
1 Kings 15:22	Then king Asa sent an announcement to all of Judah, saying, “Let no one be excused.” And they took away the stones from Ramah, and its timber, with which Baasha had fortified it. And from these things, king Asa built up Geba of Benjamin and Mizpah.
1 Kings 15:23	Now all the rest of the words of Asa, and his entire strength, and all that he did, and the cities that he built, were these not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah? Yet truly, in the time of his old age, he was afflicted in his feet.
1 Kings 15:24	And he slept with his fathers, and he was buried with them in the city of David, his father. And Jehoshaphat, his son, reigned in his place.
1 Kings 15:25	Yet truly, Nadab, the son of Jeroboam, reigned over Israel, in the second year of Asa, the king of Judah. And he reigned over Israel for two years.
1 Kings 15:26	And he did what is evil in the sight of the Lord. And he walked in the ways of his father and in his sins, by which he caused Israel to sin.
1 Kings 15:27	Then Baasha, the son of Ahijah, from the house of Issachar, set an ambush against him, and he struck him down at Gibbethon, which is a city of the Philistines. For indeed, Nadab and all of Israel were laying siege to Gibbethon.
1 Kings 15:28	And so Baasha killed him in the third year of Asa, the king of Judah, and he reigned in his place.
1 Kings 15:29	And when he had reigned, he struck down the entire house of Jeroboam. He did not leave behind even one soul from his offspring, until he had wiped him away, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he had spoken by the hand of Ahijah, the Shilonite,
1 Kings 15:30	because of the sin of Jeroboam, which he had committed, and by which he had caused Israel to sin, and because of the offense by which he had provoked the Lord, the God of Israel.
1 Kings 15:31	But the rest of the words of Nadab, and all that he did, were these not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
1 Kings 15:32	And there was war between Asa and Baasha, the king of Israel, during all their days.
1 Kings 15:33	In the third year of Asa, the king of Judah, Baasha, the son of Ahijah, reigned over all of Israel, at Tirzah, for twenty-four years.
1 Kings 15:34	And he did evil in the sight of the Lord. And he walked in the ways of Jeroboam, and in his sins, by which he caused Israel to sin.
1 Kings 16:1	Then the word of the Lord came to Jehu, the son of Hanani, against Baasha, saying:
1 Kings 16:2	“Even though I exalted you from the dust, and I set you as ruler over my people Israel, still you have walked in the way of Jeroboam, and you have caused my people Israel to sin, so that you have provoked me by their sins.
1 Kings 16:3	Behold, I will cut down the posterity of Baasha, and the posterity of his house. And I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat.
1 Kings 16:4	Whoever will have died of Baasha in the city, the dogs will consume him. And whoever will have died of him in the countryside, the birds of the air will consume him.”
1 Kings 16:5	Now the rest of the words of Baasha, and whatever he did, and his battles, were these not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
1 Kings 16:6	Then Baasha slept with his fathers, and he was buried at Tirzah. And Elah, his son, reigned in his place.
1 Kings 16:7	And when the word of the Lord had arrived by the hand of the prophet Jehu, the son of Hanani, against Baasha, and against his house, and against every evil that he had done before the Lord, so that he provoked him by the works of his hands, so that he became like the house of Jeroboam: for this reason, he killed him, that is, the prophet Jehu, the son of Hanani.
1 Kings 16:8	In the twenty-sixth year of Asa, the king of Judah, Elah, the son of Baasha, reigned over Israel, at Tirzah, for two years.
1 Kings 16:9	And his servant Zimri, the commander of one half part the horsemen, rebelled against him. Now Elah was drinking at Tirzah, and he became inebriated in the house of Arza, the prefect of Tirzah.
1 Kings 16:10	Then Zimri, rushing in, struck him and killed him, in the twenty-seventh year of Asa, the king of Judah. And he reigned in his place.
1 Kings 16:11	And when he had reigned and had sat upon his throne, he struck down the entire house of Baasha. And he did not leave behind of them anything that urinates against a wall, among both close relatives and his friends.
1 Kings 16:12	And so, Zimri destroyed the entire house of Baasha, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he had spoken to Baasha, by the hand the prophet of Jehu,
1 Kings 16:13	because of all the sins of Baasha, and the sins of Elah, his son, who sinned and caused Israel to sin, provoking the Lord, the God of Israel, with their vanities.
1 Kings 16:14	But the rest of the words of Elah, and all that he did, were these not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
1 Kings 16:15	In the twenty-seventh year of Asa, the king of Judah, Zimri reigned for seven days in Tirzah. For the army was besieging Gibbethon, a city of the Philistines.
1 Kings 16:16	And when they had heard that Zimri had rebelled, and that he had killed the king, all of Israel made Omri as a king for themselves; he was the leader of the military over Israel in the encampment in that day.
1 Kings 16:17	Therefore, Omri ascended, and all of Israel with him, from Gibbethon, and they besieged Tirzah.
1 Kings 16:18	Then Zimri, seeing that the city was about to be taken, entered the palace, and he set fire to himself along with the royal house. And he died
1 Kings 16:19	in his sins, which he had sinned, doing evil before the Lord, and walking in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin, by which he caused Israel to sin.
1 Kings 16:20	But the rest of the words of Zimri, and of his treachery and tyranny, were these not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
1 Kings 16:21	Then the people of Israel were divided into two parts: one half part of the people followed Tibni, the son of Ginath, having appointed him as king, and one half part followed Omri.
1 Kings 16:22	But the people who were with Omri prevailed over the people who were following Tibni, the son of Ginath. And Tibni died, and Omri reigned.
1 Kings 16:23	In the thirty-first year of Asa, the king of Judah, Omri reigned over Israel for twelve years; he reigned for six years at Tirzah.
1 Kings 16:24	And he bought the mount of Samaria from Shemer for two talents of silver. And he built upon it, and he called the name of the city that he had built, Samaria, after the name of Shemer, the owner of the mount.
1 Kings 16:25	But Omri did evil in the sight of the Lord, and he wrought wickedness, beyond all who had been before him.
1 Kings 16:26	And he walked in all the ways of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, and in his sins, by which he had caused Israel to sin, so that he provoked the Lord, the God of Israel, by their vanities.
1 Kings 16:27	Now the rest of the words of Omri, and his battles that he carried out, were these not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
1 Kings 16:28	And Omri slept with his fathers, and he was buried in Samaria. And Ahab, his son, reigned in his place.
1 Kings 16:29	Truly, Ahab, the son of Omri, reigned over Israel in the thirty-eighth year of Asa, the king of Judah. And Ahab, the son of Omri, reigned over Israel at Samaria for twenty-two years.
1 Kings 16:30	And Ahab, the son of Omri, did evil in the sight of the Lord, beyond all who had been before him.
1 Kings 16:31	And it was not enough for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat. In addition, he took as a wife Jezebel, the daughter of Eth-baal, the king of the Sidonians. And he went astray, and he served Baal, and adored him.
1 Kings 16:32	And he set up an altar for Baal, in the temple of Baal, which he had built at Samaria.
1 Kings 16:33	And he planted a sacred grove. And Ahab added to his works, provoking the Lord, the God of Israel, beyond all the kings of Israel who had been before him.
1 Kings 16:34	In his days, Hiel from Bethel built up Jericho. With Abiram, his firstborn, he founded it, and with Segub, his youngest son, he set up its gates, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he had spoken by the hand of Joshua, the son of Nun.
1 Kings 17:1	And Elijah the Tishbite, from the inhabitants of Gilead, said to Ahab, “As the Lord lives, the God of Israel, in whose sight I stand, there shall not be dew or rain during these years, except by the words of my mouth.”
1 Kings 17:2	And the word of the Lord came to him, saying:
1 Kings 17:3	“Withdraw from here, and go toward the east, and hide at the torrent Cherith, which is opposite the Jordan.
1 Kings 17:4	And there you shall drink from the torrent. And I have instructed the ravens to feed you there.”
1 Kings 17:5	Therefore, he went and acted in accord with the word of the Lord. And going away, he settled by the torrent Cherith, which is opposite the Jordan.
1 Kings 17:6	And the ravens carried bread and flesh to him in the morning, and likewise bread and flesh in the evening. And he drank from the torrent.
1 Kings 17:7	But after some days, the torrent dried up. For it had not rained upon the earth.
1 Kings 17:8	Then the word of the Lord came to him, saying:
1 Kings 17:9	“Rise up, and go to Zarephath of the Sidonians, and dwell there. For I have instructed a widowed woman there to feed you.”
1 Kings 17:10	He rose up and went away to Zarephath. And when he had arrived at the gate of the city, he saw the widowed woman collecting wood, and he called to her. And he said to her, “Give me a little water in a vessel, so that I may drink.”
1 Kings 17:11	And as she was going to bring it, he called out after her, saying, “Bring me also, I beg you, a morsel of bread in your hand.”
1 Kings 17:12	And she responded: “As the Lord your God lives, I have no bread, except a handful of flour in a jar, and a little oil in a bottle. See, I am collecting a couple of sticks, so that I may go in and make it for myself and my son, so that we may eat it and die.”
1 Kings 17:13	And Elijah said to her: “Do not be afraid. But go and do as you have said. Yet truly, first make for me, from the same flour, a little bread baked under ashes, and bring it to me. Then afterward, make some for yourself and for your son.
1 Kings 17:14	For thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: ‘The jar of flour will not fail, nor the bottle of oil be diminished, until the day when the Lord will grant rain upon the face of the earth.’ ”
1 Kings 17:15	She went and acted in accord with the word of Elijah. And he ate, and she and her household ate. And from that day,
1 Kings 17:16	the jar of flour did not fail, and the bottle of oil was not diminished, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he had spoken by the hand of Elijah.
1 Kings 17:17	Now it happened that, after these things, the son of the woman who was the mother of the family became ill. And the sickness was very powerful, so that no breath remained in him.
1 Kings 17:18	Therefore, she said to Elijah: “What is there between you and me, O man of God? Have you entered to me, so that my iniquities would be remembered, and so that you would put to death my son?”
1 Kings 17:19	And Elijah said to her, “Give your son to me.” And he took him from her bosom, and he carried him to an upper room, where he himself was staying. And he placed him on his own bed.
1 Kings 17:20	And he cried out to the Lord, and he said, “O Lord, my God, have you even afflicted the widow by whom I am, in a sense, sustained, so that you would put to death her son?”
1 Kings 17:21	And he stretched himself out beside the boy three times. And he cried out to the Lord and said, “O Lord, my God, let the soul of this boy, I beg you, return to his body.”
1 Kings 17:22	And the Lord heeded the voice of Elijah. And the soul of the boy returned to him, and he revived.
1 Kings 17:23	And Elijah took the boy, and he brought him down from the upper room to the lower part of the house. And he gave him to his mother. And he said to her, “See, your son lives.”
1 Kings 17:24	And the woman said to Elijah: “By this, I now realize that you are a man of God, and that the word of the Lord in your mouth is true.”
1 Kings 18:1	After many days, the word of the Lord came to Elijah, in the third year, saying, “Go and show yourself to Ahab, so that I may grant rain upon the face of the earth.”
1 Kings 18:2	Therefore, Elijah went to show himself to Ahab. For there was a severe famine in Samaria.
1 Kings 18:3	And Ahab called Obadiah, the manager of his household. Now Obadiah feared the Lord greatly.
1 Kings 18:4	For when Jezebel was killing the prophets of the Lord, he took one hundred prophets, and concealed them, fifty and fifty, in caves. And he fed them with bread and water.
1 Kings 18:5	Then Ahab said to Obadiah, “Go into the land, to all fountains of water, and to all the valleys, for perhaps we will be able to find plants, and save the horses and mules, so that the beasts of burden may not perish entirely.”
1 Kings 18:6	And they divided the regions among themselves, so that they might travel through them. Ahab went one way alone, and Obadiah went another way by himself.
1 Kings 18:7	And while Obadiah was on the way, Elijah met him. And when he had recognized him, he fell on his face, and he said, “Are you not my lord Elijah?”
1 Kings 18:8	And he responded to him: “I am. Go and tell your lord that Elijah is here.”
1 Kings 18:9	And he said: “How have I sinned that you would deliver me, your servant, into the hand of Ahab, so that he would put me to death?
1 Kings 18:10	As the Lord your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom to which my lord has not sent, seeking you. And when all responded, ‘He is not here,’ he swore each kingdom and nation to an oath, because you were not found at all.
1 Kings 18:11	And now, you say to me, ‘Go and tell your lord that Elijah is here.’
1 Kings 18:12	And when I will have departed from you, the Spirit of the Lord will transport you to a place that I do not know. And entering, I will report to Ahab. And he, not finding you, will put me to death. Yet your servant has feared the Lord from his infancy.
1 Kings 18:13	Has it not been revealed to you, my lord, what I did when Jezebel was killing the prophets of the Lord: how I hid one hundred men from the prophets of the Lord, fifty and fifty, in caves, and how I fed them with bread and water?
1 Kings 18:14	And now you say: ‘Go and tell your lord that Elijah is here,’ so that he may kill me!”
1 Kings 18:15	And Elijah said, “As the Lord of hosts lives, before whose face I stand, this day I will appear to him.”
1 Kings 18:16	Therefore, Obadiah went away to meet Ahab, and he reported to him. And Ahab went to meet Elijah.
1 Kings 18:17	And when he had seen him, he said, “Are you the one who is disturbing Israel?”
1 Kings 18:18	And he said: “I have not troubled Israel. But it is you, and the house of your father, who have abandoned the commandments of the Lord, and have followed the Baals.
1 Kings 18:19	Yet truly now, send and gather to me all of Israel, on Mount Carmel, with the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal, and the four hundred prophets of the sacred groves, who eat from the table of Jezebel.”
1 Kings 18:20	Ahab sent to all the sons of Israel, and he gathered together the prophets on mount Carmel.
1 Kings 18:21	Then Elijah, drawing near to all the people, said: “How long will you waver between two sides? If the Lord is God, follow him. But if Baal is, then follow him.” And the people did not respond a word to him.
1 Kings 18:22	And Elijah said again to the people: “I alone remain as a prophet of the Lord. But the prophets of Baal are four hundred and fifty men.
1 Kings 18:23	Let two oxen be given to us. And let them choose one ox for themselves, and, cutting it into pieces, let them set it on the wood. But they may not place fire under it. And I will prepare the other ox, and set it on the wood. But I will not place fire under it.
1 Kings 18:24	Call upon the names of your gods. And I will call on the name of my Lord. And the God who will have heeded with fire, let him be God.” And in response, all the people said, “Excellent proposition.”
1 Kings 18:25	Then Elijah said to the prophets of Baal: “Choose for yourselves one ox, and prepare it first. For you are many. And call on the names of your gods, but do not place fire under it.”
1 Kings 18:26	And when they had taken an ox, which he had given to them, they prepared it. And they called on the name of Baal, from morning even until midday, saying, “O Baal, heed us.” And there was no voice, nor did anyone respond. And so they leaped upon the altar that they had made.
1 Kings 18:27	And when it was now midday, Elijah ridiculed them, saying: “Cry out with a louder voice. For he is a god, and perhaps he is talking, or at an inn, or on a journey, or certainly he may be asleep, and must be awakened.”
1 Kings 18:28	Then they cried out with a loud voice, and they cut themselves, in accord with their ritual, with knives and lancets, until they were entirely covered in blood.
1 Kings 18:29	Then, after midday had passed, and they were prophesying, the time had arrived when the sacrifice is usually offered. And there was no voice heard, neither did anyone heed or respond to the praying.
1 Kings 18:30	Elijah said to all the people, “Draw near to me.” And as the people were drawing near to him, he repaired the altar of the Lord, which had been torn down.
1 Kings 18:31	And he took twelve stones, in accord with the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, to whom the word of the Lord came, saying, “Israel shall be your name.”
1 Kings 18:32	And he built from the stones an altar to the name of the Lord. And he made a trench for water, like two furrows of plowed land, all around the altar.
1 Kings 18:33	And he arranged the wood, and he cut the ox into pieces, and he placed it on the wood.
1 Kings 18:34	And he said, “Fill four containers with water, and pour it over the holocaust, and over the wood.” And again, he said, “Do this a second time.” And when they had done it a second time, he said, “Do it also a third time.” And they did so a third time.
1 Kings 18:35	And the water was running down around the altar, and the pit of the trench was filled with water.
1 Kings 18:36	And when it was now time for the holocaust to be offered, the prophet Elijah, drawing near, said: “O Lord, God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Israel, reveal this day that you are the God of Israel, and that I am your servant, and that I have acted, in all these things, in accord with your precept.
1 Kings 18:37	Heed me, O Lord, heed me, so that this people may learn that you are the Lord God, and that you have converted their heart again.”
1 Kings 18:38	Then the fire of the Lord fell down and devoured the holocaust, and the wood, and the stones, and even the dust, and it absorbed the water that was in the trench.
1 Kings 18:39	And when all the people had seen it, they fell upon their face, and they said: “The Lord himself is God! The Lord himself is God!”
1 Kings 18:40	And Elijah said to them, “Apprehend the prophets of Baal, and do not let even one of them escape.” And when they had apprehended them, Elijah led them down to the torrent Kishon, and he put them to death there.
1 Kings 18:41	And Elijah said to Ahab “Ascend; eat and drink. For there is the sound of an abundance of rain.”
1 Kings 18:42	Ahab ascended, so that he might eat and drink. But Elijah ascended to the top of Carmel, and bending down to the ground, he placed his face between his knees.
1 Kings 18:43	And he said to his servant, “Ascend, and gaze out toward the sea.” And when he had ascended, and had contemplated, he said, “There is nothing.” And again, he said to him, “Return seven times.”
1 Kings 18:44	And at the seventh time, behold, a little cloud ascended from the sea like the footstep of a man. And he said: “Ascend, and say to Ahab, ‘Yoke your chariot, and descend; otherwise, the rain may prevent you.’ ”
1 Kings 18:45	And as he was turning himself this way and that, behold, the heavens were darkened, and there were clouds and wind, and a great rainstorm occurred. And so Ahab, going up, went away to Jezreel.
1 Kings 18:46	And the hand of the Lord was upon Elijah. And cinching his waist, he ran before Ahab, until he arrived at Jezreel.
1 Kings 19:1	Then Ahab reported to Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword.
1 Kings 19:2	And so Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, “May the gods to these things, and may they add these other things, if by this hour tomorrow I will not have made your life like the life of one of them.”
1 Kings 19:3	Therefore, Elijah was afraid. And rising up, he went away to wherever his will would carry him. And he arrived in Beersheba of Judah. And he dismissed his servant there.
1 Kings 19:4	And he continued on, into the desert, for one day’s journey. And when he had arrived, and was sitting under a juniper tree, he requested for his soul that he might die. And he said: “It is enough for me, O Lord. Take my soul. For I am no better than my fathers.”
1 Kings 19:5	And he stretched himself out, and he slept deeply in the shadow of the juniper tree. And behold, an Angel of the Lord touched him, and said to him, “Rise up and eat.”
1 Kings 19:6	He looked, and behold, at his head was bread baked under ashes, and a container of water. Then he ate and drank, and again he slept deeply.
1 Kings 19:7	And the Angel of the Lord returned a second time, and touched him, and said to him: “Rise up, eat. For a great journey again stands before you.”
1 Kings 19:8	And he when he had risen up, he ate and drank. And he walked by the strength of that food for forty days and forty nights, as far as the mountain of God, Horeb.
1 Kings 19:9	And when he had arrived there, he stayed in a cave. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him, and said to him, “What are you doing here, Elijah?”
1 Kings 19:10	And he responded: “I have been very zealous on behalf of the Lord, the God of hosts. For the sons of Israel have forsaken your covenant. They have torn down your altars. They have killed your prophets with the sword. I alone remain. And they are seeking my life, so that they may take it away.”
1 Kings 19:11	And he said to him, “Go out and stand on the mount before the Lord.” And behold, the Lord passed by. And there was a great and strong wind, tearing apart the mountains, and crushing the rocks before the Lord. But the Lord was not in the wind. And after the wind, there was an earthquake. But the Lord was not in the earthquake.
1 Kings 19:12	And after the earthquake, there was a fire. But the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire, there was the whisper of a gentle breeze.
1 Kings 19:13	And when Elijah had heard it, he covered his face with his cloak, and going out, he stood at the entrance of the cave. And behold, there was a voice to him, saying: “What are you doing here, Elijah?” And he responded:
1 Kings 19:14	“I have been very zealous on behalf of the Lord, the God of hosts. For the sons of Israel have forsaken your covenant. They have torn down your altars. They have killed your prophets with the sword. I alone remain. And they are seeking my life, so that they may take it away.”
1 Kings 19:15	And the Lord said to him: “Go, and return on your way, through the desert, to Damascus. And when you have arrived there, you shall anoint Hazael as king over Syria.
1 Kings 19:16	And you shall anoint Jehu, the son of Nimshi, as king over Israel. But Elisha, the son of Shaphat, who is from Abelmeholah, you shall anoint to be a prophet in your place.
1 Kings 19:17	And this shall be: whoever will have escaped from the sword of Hazael, will be slain by Jehu. And whoever will have escaped from the sword of Jehu, will be put to death by Elisha.
1 Kings 19:18	And I will leave for myself seven thousand men in Israel, whose knees have not been bent before Baal, and every mouth that has not adored him, kissing hands.”
1 Kings 19:19	Therefore, Elijah, setting out from there, found Elisha, the son of Shaphat, plowing with twelve yoke of oxen. And he himself was one of those who were plowing with the twelve yoke of oxen. And when Elijah had gone to him, he cast his mantle over him.
1 Kings 19:20	And immediately, leaving behind the oxen, he ran after Elijah. And he said, “I beg you to let me kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow you.” And he said to him: “Go, and turn back. For what was mine to do, I have done concerning you.”
1 Kings 19:21	Then, turning back from him, he took a pair of oxen, and he slew them. And he cooked the flesh with the plow of the oxen. And he gave it to the people, and they ate. And rising up, he went and followed Elijah, and he ministered to him.
1 Kings 20:1	Then Benhadad, the king of Syria, gathered together his entire army. And there were thirty-two kings with him, with horses and chariots. And ascending, he fought against Samaria, and he besieged it.
1 Kings 20:2	And sending messengers into the city, to Ahab, the king of Israel,
1 Kings 20:3	he said: “Thus says Benhadad: Your silver and your gold is mine. And your wives and your best sons are mine.”
1 Kings 20:4	And the king of Israel responded, “In agreement with your word, my lord the king, I am yours, with all that is mine.”
1 Kings 20:5	And the messengers, returning, said: “Thus says Benhadad, who sent us to you: Your silver and your gold, and your wives and your sons, you shall give to me.
1 Kings 20:6	Therefore, tomorrow, at this same hour, I will send my servants to you, and they will search your house and the houses of your servants. And all that pleases them, they will put in their hands and take away.”
1 Kings 20:7	Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land, and he said: “Let your souls take heed, and see that he commits treachery against us. For he sent to me for my wives and sons, and for silver and gold. And I did not refuse.”
1 Kings 20:8	And all those greater by birth, with all the people, said to him, “You should neither listen, nor acquiesce to him.”
1 Kings 20:9	And so, he responded to the messengers of Benhadad: “Tell my lord the king: Everything about which you sent to me in the beginning, I your servant will do. But this thing, I am not able to do.”
1 Kings 20:10	And returning, the messengers took this to him, and he sent again and said, “May the gods do these things to me, and may they add these other things, if the dust of Samaria is enough to fill the hands of all the people who follow me.”
1 Kings 20:11	And responding, the king of Israel said, “Tell him that one who is girded should not boast the same as one who is ungirded.”
1 Kings 20:12	Then it happened that, when Benhadad had heard this word, he and the kings were drinking in a pavilion. And he said to his servants, “Encircle the city.” And they encircled it.
1 Kings 20:13	And behold, one prophet, drawing near to Ahab, the king of Israel, said to him: “Thus says the Lord: Certainly, you have seen this entire exceedingly great multitude? Behold, I will deliver them into your hand today, so that you may know that I am the Lord.”
1 Kings 20:14	And Ahab said, “By whom?” And he said to him: “Thus says the Lord: By the footmen of the leaders of the provinces.” And he said, “Who should begin to do battle?” And he said, “You should.”
1 Kings 20:15	Therefore, he took a count of the servants of the leaders of the provinces. And he found the number to be two hundred thirty-two. And he set them in order after the people, all the sons of Israel, who were seven thousand.
1 Kings 20:16	And they went out at midday. But Benhadad was drinking; he was inebriated in his pavilion, and the thirty-two kings with him, who had arrived in order to assist him.
1 Kings 20:17	Then the servants of the leaders of the provinces went out to the first place, at the front. And so, Benhadad sent, and they reported to him, saying: “Men have gone out from Samaria.”
1 Kings 20:18	And he said: “If they have arrived for peace, apprehend them alive; if to do battle, capture them alive.”
1 Kings 20:19	Therefore, the servants of the leaders of the provinces went out, and the remainder of the army was following.
1 Kings 20:20	And each one struck down the man who came against him. And the Syrians fled, and Israel pursued them. Also, Benhadad, the king of Syria, fled on a horse, with his horsemen.
1 Kings 20:21	But the king of Israel, going out, struck the horses and the chariots, and he struck the Syrians with a great slaughter.
1 Kings 20:22	Then a prophet, drawing near to the king of Israel, said to him: “Go and be strengthened. And know and see what you are doing. For in the following year, the king of Syria will rise up against you.”
1 Kings 20:23	Then truly, the servants of the king of Syria said to him: “Their gods are the gods of the mountains; because of this, they have overwhelmed us. But it is better that we fight against them in the plains, and then we will prevail over them.
1 Kings 20:24	Therefore, you should do this word: Remove each of the kings from your army, and set commanders in their place.
1 Kings 20:25	And replace the number of soldiers who have been cut down of yours, and the horses, in accord with the earlier number of horses, and the chariots, in accord with the number of chariots that you had before. And we will fight against them in the plains, and you will see that we will prevail over them.” And he trusted in their counsel, and he did so.
1 Kings 20:26	Therefore, after the passing of the year, Benhadad took a count of the Syrians, and he ascended to Aphek, so that he might fight against Israel.
1 Kings 20:27	Then the sons of Israel were numbered, and taking provisions, they set out to the opposite side. And they stretched out the camp facing them, like two little flocks of goats. But the Syrians filled the land.
1 Kings 20:28	And one man of God, drawing near, said to the king of Israel: “Thus says the Lord: Because the Syrians have said, ‘The Lord is the God of the mountains, but he is not the God of the valleys,’ I will deliver this entire great multitude into your hand, and you shall know that I am the Lord.”
1 Kings 20:29	And for seven days, both sides arranged each of their battle lines. Then, on the seventh day, the war was undertaken. And the sons of Israel struck down, from the Syrians, one hundred thousand foot soldiers in one day.
1 Kings 20:30	Then those who had remained fled to Aphek, into the city. And the wall fell upon twenty-seven thousand men of those who had remained. Then Benhadad, fleeing, entered the city, into a room that was inside another room.
1 Kings 20:31	And his servants said to him: “Behold, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel show clemency. And so, let us put sackcloth around our waists, and ropes on our heads, and let us go out to the king of Israel. Perhaps he will save our lives.”
1 Kings 20:32	So they wrapped sackcloth around their waists, and they placed ropes on their heads. And they went to the king of Israel, and they said to him: “Your servant, Benhadad, says: ‘I beg you to let my soul live.’ ” And he replied, “If he is still alive, he is my brother.”
1 Kings 20:33	The men accepted this as a good sign. And hastily, they took up the word from his mouth, and they said, “Benhadad is your brother.” And he said to them, “Go, and bring him to me.” Therefore, Benhadad went out to him, and he lifted him onto his chariot.
1 Kings 20:34	And he said to him: “The cities that my father took from your father, I will return. And you may make streets for yourself in Damascus, just as my father made in Samaria. And after we have made a pact, I will withdraw from you.” Therefore, he formed a pact with him, and he released him.
1 Kings 20:35	Then a certain man from the sons of the prophets said to his associate, by the word of the Lord, “Strike me.” But he was not willing to strike.
1 Kings 20:36	And he said to him: “Because you were not willing to heed the voice of the Lord, behold, you will depart from me, and a lion will slay you. And when he had departed a short distance from him, a lion found him, and slew him.
1 Kings 20:37	But upon finding another man, he said to him, “Strike me.” And he struck him, and wounded him.
1 Kings 20:38	Then the prophet departed. And he met the king along the way, and he changed his appearance by sprinkling dust around his mouth and eyes.
1 Kings 20:39	And when the king had passed by, he cried out to the king, and he said: “Your servant went out to do battle in close quarters. And when one man had fled, a certain person brought him to me, and he said: ‘Guard this man. For if he slips away, your life will take the place of his life, or you will weigh out one talent of silver.’
1 Kings 20:40	And while I was distracted, turning one way and another, suddenly, he was not to be seen.” And the king of Israel said to him, “This is your judgment, that which you yourself have decreed.”
1 Kings 20:41	Then immediately, he wiped away the dust from his face, and the king of Israel recognized him, that he was one of the prophets.
1 Kings 20:42	And he said to him: “Thus says the Lord: Because you have released from your hand a man worthy of death, your life will take the place of his life, and your people will take the place of his people.”
1 Kings 20:43	And so the king of Israel returned to his house, unwilling to listen, and a fury entered into Samaria.
1 Kings 21:1	And after these things, in that time, there was a vineyard of Naboth, the Jezreelite, who was in Jezreel, beside the palace of Ahab, the king of Samaria.
1 Kings 21:2	Therefore, Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying: “Give your vineyard to me, so that I may make for myself a garden of herbs. For it is nearby and is beside my house. And I will give to you, in place of it, a better vineyard. Or if you consider it to be more convenient for you, I will give you the price in silver, whatever it is worth.”
1 Kings 21:3	Naboth responded to him, “May the Lord be gracious to me, lest I give to you the inheritance of my fathers.”
1 Kings 21:4	Then Ahab went into his house, angry and gnashing his teeth over the word that Naboth, the Jezreelite, had spoken to him, saying, “I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers.” And casting himself on his bed, he turned away his face to the wall, and he would not eat bread.
1 Kings 21:5	Then Jezebel, his wife, entered to him, and she said to him: “What is this matter, by which your soul has been saddened? And why do you not eat bread?”
1 Kings 21:6	And he responded to her: “I spoke to Naboth, the Jezreelite, and I said to him: ‘Give your vineyard to me, and accept money. Or if it pleases you, I will give to you a better vineyard, in place of it.’ And he said, ‘I will not give my vineyard to you.’ ”
1 Kings 21:7	Then Jezebel, his wife, said to him: “You are of great authority, and you rule well in the kingdom of Israel. Rise up and eat bread, and be even-tempered. I will give the vineyard of Naboth, the Jezreelite, to you.”
1 Kings 21:8	And so, she wrote letters in the name of Ahab, and she sealed these with his ring. And she sent to those greater by birth, and to the nobles who were in his city and living with Naboth.
1 Kings 21:9	And this was the judgment of the letters: “Proclaim a fast, and cause Naboth to sit among the first rulers of the people.
1 Kings 21:10	And send out two men, sons of Belial, against him. And let them speak the false testimony: ‘He has blasphemed God and king.’ And then lead him away, and stone him, and so let him die.”
1 Kings 21:11	Then his fellow citizens, those greater by birth and the nobles who were living with him in the city, did just as Jezebel had instructed them, and just as it was written in the letters that she had sent to them.
1 Kings 21:12	They proclaimed a fast, and they caused Naboth to sit among the first rulers of the people.
1 Kings 21:13	And bringing forward two men, sons of the devil, they caused them to sit opposite him. And they, acting indeed like diabolical men, spoke testimony against him before the multitude: “Naboth has blasphemed God and king.” For this reason, they led him away, beyond the city, and they put him to death by stoning.
1 Kings 21:14	And they sent to Jezebel, saying, “Naboth has been stoned, and he has died.”
1 Kings 21:15	Then it happened that, when Jezebel had heard that Naboth was stoned and was dead, she said to Ahab: “Rise up and take possession of the vineyard of Naboth, the Jezreelite, who was not willing to acquiesce to you, and to give it to you in exchange for money. For Naboth is not alive, but dead.”
1 Kings 21:16	And when Ahab had heard this, namely, that Naboth was dead, he rose up and descended to the vineyard of Naboth, the Jezreelite, so that he might take possession of it.
1 Kings 21:17	Then the word of the Lord came to Elijah, the Tishbite, saying:
1 Kings 21:18	“Rise up, and descend to meet Ahab, the king of Israel, who is in Samaria. Behold, he is descending to the vineyard of Naboth, so that he may take possession of it.
1 Kings 21:19	And you shall speak to him, saying: ‘Thus says the Lord: You have killed. Moreover you have also taken possession.’ And after this, you shall add: ‘Thus says the Lord: In this place, where the dogs have licked the blood of Naboth, they shall also lick your blood.’ ”
1 Kings 21:20	And Ahab said to Elijah, “Have you discovered me to be your enemy?” And he said: “I have discovered you to have been sold, so that you would do evil in the sight of the Lord:
1 Kings 21:21	‘Behold, I will lead evil over you. And I will cut down your posterity. And I will put to death of Ahab whatever urinates against a wall, and whatever is lame, and whatever is last in Israel.
1 Kings 21:22	And I will cause your house to be like the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha, the son of Ahijah. For you have acted so that you provoked me to anger, and so that you caused Israel to sin.’
1 Kings 21:23	And about Jezebel also, the Lord spoke, saying: ‘The dogs shall consume Jezebel in the field of Jezreel.
1 Kings 21:24	If Ahab will have died in the city, the dogs will consume him. But if he will have died in the field, the birds of the air will consume him.’ ”
1 Kings 21:25	And so, there was no other person similar to Ahab, who was sold so that he did evil in the sight of the Lord. For his wife, Jezebel, urged him on.
1 Kings 21:26	And he became abominable, so much so that he followed the idols that the Amorites had made, whom the Lord consumed before the face of the sons of Israel.
1 Kings 21:27	Then, when Ahab had heard these words, he tore his garments, and he put haircloth on his body, and he fasted, and he slept in sackcloth, and he walked with his head downcast.
1 Kings 21:28	And the word of the Lord came to Elijah, the Tishbite, saying:
1 Kings 21:29	“Have you not seen how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Therefore, since he has humbled himself because of me, I will not lead in the evil during his days. Instead, during the days of his son, I will bring in the evil to his house.”
1 Kings 22:1	Then three years passed without war between Syria and Israel.
1 Kings 22:2	But in the third year, Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, descended to the king of Israel.
1 Kings 22:3	And the king of Israel said to his servants, “Are you ignorant that Ramoth Gilead is ours, and that we have neglected to take it from the hand of the king of Syria?”
1 Kings 22:4	And so he said to Jehoshaphat, “Will you come to the battle with me at Ramoth Gilead?”
1 Kings 22:5	And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel: “As I am, so also are you. My people and your people are one. And my horsemen are your horsemen.” And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, “I beg you to inquire today of the word of the Lord.”
1 Kings 22:6	Therefore, the king of Israel gathered together the prophets, about four hundred men, and he said to them, “Should I go to Ramoth Gilead to make war, or should I be at peace?” They responded, “Ascend, and the Lord will give it into the hand of the king.”
1 Kings 22:7	Then Jehoshaphat said, “Is there not here a particular prophet of the Lord, so that we may inquire by him?”
1 Kings 22:8	And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat: “One man remains, by whom we may be able to inquire of the Lord: Micaiah, the son of Imlah. But I hate him. For he does not prophecy good to me, but evil.” And Jehoshaphat said, “You should not speak in this way, O king.”
1 Kings 22:9	Therefore, the king of Israel called a certain eunuch, and he said to him, “Hurry to bring here Micaiah, the son of Imlah.”
1 Kings 22:10	Now the king of Israel, and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, were each sitting upon his own throne, clothed in the habit of royal vestments, in a courtyard beside the entrance of the gate of Samaria. And all the prophets were prophesying in their sight.
1 Kings 22:11	Also, Zedekiah, the son of Chenaanah, made for himself horns of iron, and he said, “Thus says the Lord: With these, you shall threaten Syria, until you destroy it.”
1 Kings 22:12	And all the prophets were prophesying similarly, saying: “Ascend to Ramoth Gilead, and go forth to success. For the Lord will deliver it into the hands of the king.”
1 Kings 22:13	Then truly, the messenger who had gone to summon Micaiah spoke to him, saying: “Behold, the words of the prophets, as if with one mouth, are predicting good to the king. Therefore, let your word be like theirs, and speak what is good.”
1 Kings 22:14	But Micaiah said to him, “As the Lord lives, whatever the Lord will have said to me, this shall I speak.”
1 Kings 22:15	And so he went to the king. And the king said to him, “Micaiah, should we go to Ramoth Gilead to do battle, or should we cease?” And he responded to him, “Ascend, and go forth to success, and the Lord will deliver it into the hands of the king.”
1 Kings 22:16	But the king said to him, “I require you under oath, again and again, that you not say to me anything except what is true, in the name of the Lord.”
1 Kings 22:17	And he said: “I saw all of Israel scattered among the hills, like sheep that have no shepherd. And the Lord said: ‘These have no master. Let each of them return to his own house in peace.’ ”
1 Kings 22:18	Therefore, the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat: “Did I not tell you that he prophesies nothing good to me, but always evil?”
1 Kings 22:19	Yet truly, continuing, he said: “Because of his, listen to the word of the Lord. I saw the Lord sitting upon his throne. And the entire army of heaven was standing beside him, to the right and to the left.
1 Kings 22:20	And the Lord said, ‘Who will mislead Ahab, the king of Israel, so that he may ascend and fall at Ramoth Gilead?’ And one spoke words in this manner, and another spoke otherwise.
1 Kings 22:21	But then a spirit went out and stood before the Lord. And he said, ‘I will mislead him.’ And the Lord said to him, ‘By what means?’
1 Kings 22:22	And he said, ‘I will go forth, and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.’ And the Lord said: ‘You will deceive him, and you will prevail. Go forth, and do so.’
1 Kings 22:23	So now, behold: the Lord has given a lying spirit into the mouth of all your prophets who are here. And the Lord has spoken evil against you.”
1 Kings 22:24	Then Zedekiah, the son of Chenaanah, drew near and struck Micaiah on the jaw, and he said, “So then, has the Spirit of the Lord left me, and spoken to you?”
1 Kings 22:25	And Micaiah said, “You shall see in the day when you will enter into a room within a room, so that you may conceal yourself.”
1 Kings 22:26	And the king of Israel said: “Take Micaiah, and let him dwell with Amon, the ruler of the city, and with Joash, the son of Amalech.
1 Kings 22:27	And tell them: ‘Thus says the king: Put this man in prison, and sustain him with the bread of affliction, and with the water of distress, until I return in peace.’ ”
1 Kings 22:28	And Micaiah said, “If you will have returned in peace, the Lord has not spoken through me.” And he said, “May all the people hear it.”
1 Kings 22:29	And so, the king of Israel, and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, ascended to Ramoth Gilead.
1 Kings 22:30	Then the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat: “Take up your armor, and enter the battle. And be clothed in your own garments.” But the king of Israel changed his clothing, and he entered the war.
1 Kings 22:31	Now the king of Syria had instructed the thirty-two commanders of the chariots, saying, “You shall not fight against anyone, small or great, except against the king of Israel alone.”
1 Kings 22:32	Therefore, when the commanders of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they suspected that he was the king of Israel. And making a violent assault, they fought against him. And Jehoshaphat cried out.
1 Kings 22:33	And the commanders of the chariots understood that he was not the king of Israel, and so they turned away from him.
1 Kings 22:34	But a certain man bent his bow, aiming the arrow without certitude, and by chance he struck the king of Israel, between the lungs and the stomach. Then he said to the driver of his chariot, “Turn your hand, and carry me away from the army, for I have been grievously wounded.”
1 Kings 22:35	Then the battle was undertaken throughout that day. And the king of Israel was standing on his chariot opposite the Syrians, and he died in the evening. For the blood was flowing from the wound into the joints of the chariot.
1 Kings 22:36	And a herald proclaimed throughout the entire army, before the setting of the sun, saying: “Let each one return to his own city, and to his own land.”
1 Kings 22:37	Then the king died, and he was carried into Samaria. And they buried the king in Samaria.
1 Kings 22:38	And they washed his chariot in the pool of Samaria. And the dogs licked up his blood. And they washed the reins, in accord with the word of the Lord which he had spoken.
1 Kings 22:39	But the rest of the words of Ahab, and all that he did, and the house of ivory that he built, and all the cities that he constructed, were these not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
1 Kings 22:40	And so, Ahab slept with his fathers. And Ahaziah, his son, reigned in his place.
1 Kings 22:41	Yet truly, Jehoshaphat, the son of Asa, had begun to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab, the king of Israel.
1 Kings 22:42	He was thirty-five years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for twenty-five years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Azubah, the daughter of Shilhi.
1 Kings 22:43	And he walked in the entire way of Asa, his father, and he did not decline from it. And he did what was right in the sight of the Lord.  Yet truly, he did not take away the high places. For still the people were sacrificing and burning incense in the high places.
1 Kings 22:44	 And Jehoshaphat had peace with the king of Israel.
1 Kings 22:45	 But the rest of the words of Jehoshaphat, and his works that he did, and the battles, were these not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
1 Kings 22:46	 Then, too, the remnant of the effeminate, who had remained in the days of Asa, his father, he took away from the land.
1 Kings 22:47	 At that time, there was no king appointed in Idumea.
1 Kings 22:48	 Yet truly, king Jehoshaphat had made a navy on the sea, which would sail to Ophir for gold. But they were unable to go, because the ships were broken down at Eziongeber.
1 Kings 22:49	 Then Ahaziah, the son of Ahab, said to Jehoshaphat, “Let my servants go with your servants on the ships.” But Jehoshaphat was not willing.
1 Kings 22:50	 And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and he was buried with them in the city of David, his father. And Jehoram, his son, reigned in his place.
1 Kings 22:51	 Then Ahaziah, the son of Ahab, began to reign over Israel, in Samaria, in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah. And he reigned over Israel for two years.
1 Kings 22:52	 And he did evil in the sight of the Lord. And he walked in the way of his father and his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin.
1 Kings 22:53	 Also, he served Baal, and he adored him, and he provoked the Lord, the God of Israel, in accord with all that his father had done.
2 Kings 1:1	Then, after the death of Ahab, Moab transgressed against Israel.
2 Kings 1:2	And Ahaziah fell down through the lattices of his upper room, which he had in Samaria, and he was injured. And he sent messengers, saying to them, “Go, consult Beelzebub, the god of Ekron, as to whether I may be able to survive this infirmity of mine.”
2 Kings 1:3	And an Angel of the Lord spoke to Elijah, the Tishbite, saying: “Rise up, and ascend to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria. And you shall say to them: ‘Is there not a God in Israel, so that you would go to consult Beelzebub, the god of Ekron?
2 Kings 1:4	For this reason, thus says the Lord: From the bed to which you have ascended, you shall not descend. Instead, dying you shall die.’ ” And Elijah went away.
2 Kings 1:5	And the messengers returned to Ahaziah. And he said to them, “Why have you returned?”
2 Kings 1:6	But they responded to him: “A man met us, and he said to us: ‘Go, and return to the king who sent you. And you shall say to him: Thus says the Lord: Is it because there was no God in Israel that you are sending to consult Beelzebub, the god of Ekron? Therefore, from the bed to which you have ascended, you shall not descend. Instead, dying you shall die.’ ”
2 Kings 1:7	And he said to them: “What was the appearance and dress of that man, who met you and who spoke these words?”
2 Kings 1:8	So they said, “A hairy man, with a belt of leather wrapping his waist.” And he said, “It is Elijah, the Tishbite.”
2 Kings 1:9	And he sent to him a leader of fifty, with the fifty who were under him. And he ascended to him, sitting at the top of a hill, and he said, “Man of God, the king commanded that you should descend.”
2 Kings 1:10	And responding, Elijah said to the leader of fifty, “If I am a man of God, let fire from heaven descend and devour you and your fifty.” And then fire from heaven descended and devoured him and the fifty who were with him.
2 Kings 1:11	And again, he sent to him another leader of fifty, and the fifty with him. And he said to him, “Man of God, thus says the king: Hurry, descend.”
2 Kings 1:12	Responding, Elijah said, “If I am a man of God, let fire from heaven descend and devour you and your fifty.” And fire from heaven descended and devoured him and his fifty.
2 Kings 1:13	Again, he sent a third leader of fifty men and the fifty who were with him. And when he had arrived, he bent his knees before Elijah, and he pleaded with him, and said: “Man of God, do not choose to despise my life and the lives of your servants who are with me.
2 Kings 1:14	Behold, fire from heaven descended and devoured the two previous leaders of fifty and the fifties who were with them. But now I beg you to take pity on my life.”
2 Kings 1:15	Then the Angel of the Lord spoke to Elijah, saying, “Descend with him; fear not.” And so, he arose and descended with him to the king.
2 Kings 1:16	And he said to him: “Thus says the Lord: Because you sent messengers to consult Beelzebub, the god of Ekron, as if there were no God in Israel, from whom you would be able to seek a word, therefore, from the bed to which you have ascended, you shall not descend. Instead, dying you shall die.”
2 Kings 1:17	And so he died, in accord with the word of the Lord, which Elijah spoke. And Jehoram, his brother, reigned in his place, in the second year of Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah. For he had no son.
2 Kings 1:18	But the rest of the words of Ahaziah that he worked, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2 Kings 2:1	Now it happened that, when the Lord willed to lift up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind, Elijah and Elisha were going out of Gilgal.
2 Kings 2:2	And Elijah said to Elisha: “Remain here. For the Lord has sent me as far as Bethel.” And Elisha said to him, “As the Lord lives, and as your soul lives, I will not forsake you.” And when they had descended to Bethel,
2 Kings 2:3	the sons of the prophets, who were at Bethel, went out to Elisha. And they said to him, “Do you not know that today the Lord will take away your lord from you?” And he responded: “I know it. Be silent.”
2 Kings 2:4	Then Elijah said to Elisha: “Remain here. For the Lord has sent me to Jericho.” And he said, “As the Lord lives, and as your soul lives, I will not forsake you.” And when they had arrived at Jericho,
2 Kings 2:5	the sons of the prophets, who were at Jericho, drew near to Elisha. And they said to him, “Do you not know that today the Lord will take away your lord from you?” And he said: “I know it. Be silent.”
2 Kings 2:6	Then Elijah said to him: “Remain here. For the Lord has sent me as far as the Jordan.” And he said, “As the Lord lives, and as your soul lives, I will not forsake you.” And so, the two of them continued on together.
2 Kings 2:7	And fifty men from the sons of the prophets followed them, and they stood opposite them, at a distance. But the two of them were standing above the Jordan.
2 Kings 2:8	And Elijah took his cloak, and he rolled it up, and he struck the waters, which were divided into two parts. And they both went across on dry ground.
2 Kings 2:9	And when they had gone across, Elijah said to Elisha, “Ask what you wish that I may do for you, before I am taken from you.” And Elisha said, “I beg you, that twice your spirit may be accomplished in me.”
2 Kings 2:10	And he responded: “You have requested a difficult thing. Nevertheless, if you see me when I am taken from you, you will have what you requested. But if you do not see, it shall not be.”
2 Kings 2:11	And as they continued on, they were conversing while walking. And behold, a fiery chariot with fiery horses divided the two. And Elijah ascended by a whirlwind into heaven.
2 Kings 2:12	Then Elisha saw it, and he cried out: “My father, my father! The chariot of Israel with its driver!” And he saw him no more. And he took hold of his own garments, and he tore them into two parts.
2 Kings 2:13	And he picked up the cloak of Elijah, which had fallen from him. And turning back, he stood above the bank of the Jordan.
2 Kings 2:14	And he struck the waters with the cloak of Elijah, which had fallen from him, and they were not divided. And he said, “Where is the God of Elijah, even now?” And he struck the waters, and they were divided here and there. And Elisha went across.
2 Kings 2:15	Then the sons of the prophets, who were at Jericho, watching from a distance, said, “The spirit of Elijah has rested upon Elisha.” And approaching to meet him, they reverenced him prone on the ground.
2 Kings 2:16	And they said to him, “Behold, with your servants there are fifty strong men, who are able to go forth and to seek your lord. For perhaps, the Spirit of the Lord has taken him up and cast him upon some mountain, or into some valley.” But he said, “Do not send them.”
2 Kings 2:17	And they urged him, until he acquiesced and said, “Send them.” And they sent fifty men. And after they had searched for three days, they did not find him.
2 Kings 2:18	And they returned to him, for he was living in Jericho. And he said to them: “Did I not say to you, ‘Do not send them?’ ”
2 Kings 2:19	Also, the men of the city said to Elisha: “Behold, this city is a very good habitation, as you yourself perceive, O lord. But the waters are very bad, and the ground is barren.”
2 Kings 2:20	And so he said, “Bring a new vessel to me, and place salt in it.” And when they had brought it,
2 Kings 2:21	he went out to the source of the waters, and he cast the salt into it. And he said: “Thus says the Lord: I have healed these waters, and no longer shall there be death or barrenness in them.”
2 Kings 2:22	Then the waters were healed, even to this day, in accord with the word of Elisha, which he spoke.
2 Kings 2:23	Then he went up from there into Bethel. And as he was ascending along the way, little boys departed from the city. And they were mocking him, saying: “Go up, bald head! Go up, bald head!”
2 Kings 2:24	And when he had looked back, he saw them, and he cursed them in the name of the Lord. And two bears went out from the forest, and they wounded forty-two boys among them.
2 Kings 2:25	Then he went away from there to mount Carmel. And he returned from there into Samaria.
2 Kings 3:1	Truly, Joram, the son of Ahab, reigned over Israel, in Samaria, in the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah. And he reigned for twelve years.
2 Kings 3:2	And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, but not as his father and mother did. For he took away the statues of Baal, which his father had made.
2 Kings 3:3	Yet truly, he did adhere to the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin; neither did he withdraw from these.
2 Kings 3:4	Now Mesha, the king of Moab, raised many sheep. And he repaid to the king of Israel one hundred thousand lambs, and one hundred thousand rams, with their fleece.
2 Kings 3:5	And when Ahab had died, he transgressed the pact that he had with the king of Israel.
2 Kings 3:6	Therefore, king Joram departed on that day from Samaria, and he took a count of all of Israel.
2 Kings 3:7	And he sent to Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, saying: “The king of Moab was withdrawn from me. Come to battle with me against him.” And he responded: “I will go up. What is mine, is yours. My people are your people. And my horses are your horses.”
2 Kings 3:8	And he said, “Along which way shall we ascend?” So he responded, “Along the desert of Idumea.”
2 Kings 3:9	Therefore, the king of Israel, and the king of Judah, and the king of Idumea, traveled, and they went by a circuitous path for seven days. But there was no water for the army or for the beasts of burden which were following them.
2 Kings 3:10	And the king of Israel said: “Alas, alas, alas! The Lord has gathered we three kings, so that he might deliver us into the hands of Moab.”
2 Kings 3:11	And Jehoshaphat said, “Is there not a prophet of the Lord here, so that we may appeal to the Lord through him?” And one of the servants of the king of Israel responded, “Elisha, the son of Shaphat, is here, who poured water upon the hands of Elijah.”
2 Kings 3:12	And Jehoshaphat said, “The word of the Lord is with him.” And so, the king of Israel, with Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, and with the king of Idumea, descended to him.
2 Kings 3:13	Then Elisha said to the king of Israel: “What is there between you and me? Go to the prophets of your father and your mother.” And the king of Israel said to him, “Why has the Lord gathered these three kings, so that he might deliver them into the hands of Moab?”
2 Kings 3:14	And Elisha said to him: “As the Lord of hosts lives, in whose sight I stand, if I was not humbled by the face of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, certainly I would neither have listened to you, nor have looked upon you.
2 Kings 3:15	But now, bring a musician to me.” And while the musician was playing, the hand of the Lord fell upon him, and he said:
2 Kings 3:16	“Thus says the Lord: Make, in the channel of this torrent, pit after pit.
2 Kings 3:17	For thus says the Lord: You shall not see wind or rain. And yet this channel shall be filled with water. And you shall drink, you and your families, and your beasts of burden.
2 Kings 3:18	And this is small in the sight of the Lord. So, in addition, he will also deliver Moab into your hands.
2 Kings 3:19	And you shall strike every fortified town and every elect city. And you shall cut down every fruitful tree. And you shall obstruct all the sources of water. And you shall cover every excellent field with stones.”
2 Kings 3:20	Then it happened that, in the morning, when the sacrifices were usually to be offered, behold, water was arriving along the way of Idumea, and the land was filled with water.
2 Kings 3:21	Then all the Moabites, hearing that the kings had ascended so that they might fight against them, gathered all who had been girded with a belt around them, and they stood at the borders.
2 Kings 3:22	And rising up in early morning, and when the sun was now rising before the waters, the Moabites saw the waters opposite them, which were red like blood.
2 Kings 3:23	And they said: “It is the blood of the sword! The kings have fought among themselves, and they have slain one another. Go now, Moab, to the spoils!”
2 Kings 3:24	And they went into the camp of Israel. But Israel, rising up, struck Moab, and they fled before them. And since they had prevailed, they went and struck down Moab.
2 Kings 3:25	And they destroyed the cities. And they filled up every excellent field, each one casting stones. And they obstructed all the sources of water. And they cut down all the fruitful trees, to such an extent that only brick walls remained. And the city was encircled by the slingers of stones. And a great part of it was struck down.
2 Kings 3:26	And when the king of Moab had seen this, specifically, that the enemies had prevailed, he took with him seven hundred men who draw the sword, so that he might break through to the king of Idumea. But they were unable.
2 Kings 3:27	And taking his firstborn son, who would have reigned in his place, he offered him as a holocaust upon the wall. And there was great indignation in Israel. And they promptly withdrew from him, and they turned back to their own land.
2 Kings 4:1	Now a certain woman, from the wives of the prophets, cried out to Elisha, saying: “My husband, your servant, is dead. And you know that your servant was one who fears the Lord. And behold, a creditor has arrived, so that he may take away my two sons to serve him.”
2 Kings 4:2	And Elisha said to her: “What do you want me to do for you? Tell me, what do you have in your house?” And she responded, “I, your handmaid, do not have anything in my house, except a little oil, with which I may be anointed.”
2 Kings 4:3	And he said to her: “Go, ask to borrow from all your neighbors empty vessels, more than a few.
2 Kings 4:4	And enter and close your door. And when you are inside with your sons, pour from the oil into all those vessels. And when they are full, take them away.”
2 Kings 4:5	And so, the woman went and closed the door upon herself and her sons. They were bringing her the vessels, and she was pouring into them.
2 Kings 4:6	And when the vessels had been filled, she said to her son, “Bring me another a vessel.” And he responded, “I have none.” And there was oil remaining.
2 Kings 4:7	Then she went and told the man of God. And he said: “Go, sell the oil, and repay your creditor. Then you and your sons may live on what remains.”
2 Kings 4:8	Now it happened that, on a certain day, Elisha passed by Shunem. And there was a great woman there, who took him to eat bread. And since he frequently passed by there, he turned aside to her house, so that he might eat bread.
2 Kings 4:9	And she said to her husband: “I have noticed that he is a holy man of God, who passes by us frequently.
2 Kings 4:10	Therefore, let us prepare a small upper room for him, and place a bed in it for him, and a table, and a chair, and a lampstand, so that when he comes to us, he may stay there.”
2 Kings 4:11	Then it happened that, on a certain day, arriving, he turned aside into the upper room, and he rested there.
2 Kings 4:12	And he said to his servant Gehazi, “Call this Shunammite woman.” And when he had called her, and she stood before him,
2 Kings 4:13	he said to his servant: “Say to her: Behold, you have ministered to us attentively in all things. What do you want, that I might do for you? Do you have any business, or do you want me to speak to the king, or to the leader of the military?” And she responded, “I live in the midst of my own people.”
2 Kings 4:14	And he said, “Then what does she want, that I might do for her?” And Gehazi said: “You need not ask. For she has no son, and her husband is elderly.”
2 Kings 4:15	And so, he instructed him to call her. And when she had been called, and was standing before the door,
2 Kings 4:16	he said to her, “At this time, and at this same hour, with life as a companion, you will have a son in your womb.” But she responded, “Do not, I ask you, my lord, a man of God, do not be willing to lie to your handmaid.”
2 Kings 4:17	And the woman conceived. And she bore a son, in the time and at the same hour as Elisha had said.
2 Kings 4:18	And the boy grew. And on a certain day, when he had gone out to his father, to the harvesters,
2 Kings 4:19	he said to his father: “I have a pain in my head. I have a pain in my head.” But he said to his servant, “Take him, and lead him to his mother.”
2 Kings 4:20	But when he had taken him, and he had led him to his mother, she placed him upon her knees, until midday, and then he died.
2 Kings 4:21	Then she went up and laid him out on the bed of the man of God, and she closed the door. And departing,
2 Kings 4:22	she called her husband, and she said: “Send with me, I beg you, one of your servants, and a donkey, so that I may hurry to the man of God, and then return.”
2 Kings 4:23	And he said to her: “What is the reason that you would go to him? Today is not the new moon, and it is not the Sabbath.” She responded, “I will go.”
2 Kings 4:24	And she saddled a donkey, and she instructed her servant: “Drive, and hurry on. You shall cause no delay for me in departing. And do whatever I instruct you to do.”
2 Kings 4:25	And so she set out. And she came to the man of God, on mount Carmel. And when the man of God had seen her at a distance, he said to his servant Gehazi: “Behold, it is that Shunammite woman.
2 Kings 4:26	So then, go to meet her, and say to her, ‘Does all go well concerning you, and your husband, and your son?’ ” And she answered, “It is well.”
2 Kings 4:27	And when she had arrived at the man of God, on the mount, she took hold of his feet. And Gehazi drew near, so that he might remove her. But the man of God said: “Permit her. For her soul is in bitterness. And the Lord has concealed it from me, and has not revealed it to me.”
2 Kings 4:28	And she said to him: “Did I ask a son from my lord? Did I not say to you, ‘You should not deceive me?’ ”
2 Kings 4:29	And so he said to Gehazi: “Gird your waist, and take my staff in your hand, and go. If any man will meet you, you shall not greet him. And if anyone greets you, you shall not respond to him. And place my staff upon the face of the boy.”
2 Kings 4:30	But the mother of the boy said, “As the Lord lives, and as your soul lives, I will not release you.” Therefore, he rose up, and he followed her.
2 Kings 4:31	But Gehazi had gone before them, and he had placed the staff upon the face of the boy. And there was no voice, nor any response. And so he returned to meet him. And he reported to him, saying, “The boy did not rise up.”
2 Kings 4:32	Therefore, Elisha entered the house. And behold, the boy was lying dead upon his bed.
2 Kings 4:33	And entering, he closed the door upon himself and the boy. And he prayed to the Lord.
2 Kings 4:34	And he climbed up, and lay across the boy. And he put his mouth over his mouth, and his eyes over his eyes, and his hands over his hands. And he leaned himself over him, and the body of the boy grew warm.
2 Kings 4:35	And returning, he walked around the house, first here and then there. And he went up, and lay across him. And the boy gasped seven times, and he opened his eyes.
2 Kings 4:36	And he called Gehazi, and said to him, “Call this Shunammite woman.” And having been called, she entered to him. And he said, “Take up your son.”
2 Kings 4:37	She went and fell at his feet, and she reverenced upon the ground. And she took up her son, and departed.
2 Kings 4:38	And Elisha returned to Gilgal. Now there was a famine in the land, and the sons of the prophets were living in his sight. And he said to one of his servants, “Set out a large cooking pot, and boil a soup for the sons of the prophets.”
2 Kings 4:39	And one went out into the field, so that he might collect wild herbs. And he found something like a wild vine, and he gathered from it bitter fruits of the field, and he filled his cloak. And returning, he cut these up for the pot of soup. But he did not know what it was.
2 Kings 4:40	Then they poured it out for their companions to eat. And when they had tasted the mixture, they cried out, saying, “Death is in the cooking pot, O man of God!” And they were unable to eat.
2 Kings 4:41	But he said, “Bring some flour.” And when they had brought it, he cast it into the cooking pot, and he said, “Pour it out for the group, so that they may eat.” And there was no longer any bitterness in the cooking pot.
2 Kings 4:42	Now a certain man arrived from Baal-Shalishah, carrying, for the man of God, bread from the first-fruits, twenty loaves of barley, and new grain in his satchel. But he said, “Give it to the people, so that they may eat.”
2 Kings 4:43	And his servant responded to him, “What amount is this, that I should set it before a hundred men?” But he said again: “Give it to the people, so that they may eat. For thus says the Lord, ‘They shall eat, and there shall be still more.’ ”
2 Kings 4:44	And so, he set it before them. And they ate, and there was still more, in accord with the word of the Lord.
2 Kings 5:1	Naaman, the leader of the military of the king of Syria, was a great and honorable man with his lord. For through him the Lord gave salvation to Syria. And he was a strong and rich man, but a leper.
2 Kings 5:2	Now robbers had gone out from Syria, and they had led away captive, from the land of Israel, a little girl. And she was in the service of the wife of Naaman.
2 Kings 5:3	And she said to her lady: “I wish that my lord had been with the prophet who is in Samaria. Certainly, he would have cured him of the leprosy that he has.”
2 Kings 5:4	And so, Naaman entered to his lord, and he reported to him, saying: “The girl from the land of Israel spoke in such a manner.”
2 Kings 5:5	And the king of Syria said to him, “Go, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel.” And when he had set out, he had taken with him ten talents of silver, and six thousand gold coins, and ten changes of fine clothing.
2 Kings 5:6	And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, in these words: “When you will receive this letter, know that I have sent to you my servant, Naaman, so that you may heal him of his leprosy.”
2 Kings 5:7	And when the king of Israel had read the letter, he tore his garments, and he said: “Am I God, so that I could take or give life, or so that this man would send to me to cure a man from his leprosy? Take notice and see that he is seeking occasions against me.”
2 Kings 5:8	And when Elisha, the man of God, had heard this, specifically, that the king of Israel had torn his garments, he sent to him, saying: “Why have you torn your garments? Let him come to me, and let him know that there is a prophet in Israel.”
2 Kings 5:9	Therefore, Naaman arrived with his horses and chariots, and he stood at the door of the house of Elisha.
2 Kings 5:10	And Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, “Go, and wash seven times in the Jordan, and your flesh will receive health, and you will be clean.”
2 Kings 5:11	And becoming angry, Naaman went away, saying: “I thought that he would have come out to me, and, standing, would have invoked the name of the Lord, his God, and that he would have touched the place of the leprosy with his hand, and so have healed me.
2 Kings 5:12	Are not the Abana and the Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel, so that I might wash in them and be cleansed?” But then, after he had turned himself away and was leaving with indignation,
2 Kings 5:13	his servants approached him, and they said to him: “If the prophet had told you, father, to do something great, certainly you ought to have done it. How much more so, now that he has said to you: ‘Wash, and you will be clean?’ ”
2 Kings 5:14	So he descended and washed in the Jordan seven times, in accord with the word of the man of God. And his flesh was restored, like the flesh of a little child. And he was made clean.
2 Kings 5:15	And returning to the man of God, with his entire retinue, he arrived, and stood before him, and he said: “Truly, I know there is no other God, in all the earth, except in Israel. And so I beg you to accept a blessing from your servant.”
2 Kings 5:16	But he responded, “As the Lord lives, before whom I stand, I will not accept it.” And though he urged him strongly, he did not agree at all.
2 Kings 5:17	And Naaman said: “As you wish. But I beg you to grant to me, your servant, that I may take from here the burden of two mules from the ground. For your servant will no longer offer holocaust or victim to other gods, except to the Lord.
2 Kings 5:18	But there is still this matter, for which you will entreat the Lord on behalf of your servant: when my lord enters the temple of Rimmon, so that he may adore there, and he leans on my hand, if I will bow down in the temple of Rimmon, while he is adoring in the same place, that the Lord may ignore me, your servant, concerning this matter.”
2 Kings 5:19	And he said to him, “Go in peace.” Then he went away from him, in the elect time of the earth.
2 Kings 5:20	And Gehazi, the servant of the man of God, said: “My lord has spared Naaman, this Syrian, by not receiving from him what he brought. As the Lord lives, I will run after him, and take something from him.”
2 Kings 5:21	And so, Gehazi followed after the back of Naaman. And when he had seen him running toward him, he leaped down from his chariot to meet him, and he said, “Is all well?”
2 Kings 5:22	And he said: “It is well. My lord has sent me to you, saying: ‘Just now two youths from the sons of the prophets have come to me from mount Ephraim. Give them a talent of silver, and two changes of clothing.’ ”
2 Kings 5:23	And Naaman said, “It is better that you accept two talents.” And he urged him, and he bound the two talents of silver in two bags, with two changes of clothing. And he set them upon two of his servants, who carried them before him.
2 Kings 5:24	And when now he had arrived in the evening, he took them from their hands, and he stored them in the house. And he dismissed the men, and they went away.
2 Kings 5:25	Then, having entered, he stood before his lord. And Elisha said, “Where are you coming from, Gehazi?” He responded, “Your servant did not go anywhere.”
2 Kings 5:26	But he said: “Was my heart not present, when the man turned back from his chariot to meet you? And now you have received money, and you have received garments, so that you might buy olive groves, and vineyards, and sheep, and oxen, and men and women servants.
2 Kings 5:27	So then, the leprosy of Naaman shall adhere to you, and to your offspring forever.” And he departed from him a leper, as white as snow.
2 Kings 6:1	Now the sons of the prophets said to Elisha: “Behold, the place in which we live before you is too narrow for us.
2 Kings 6:2	Let us go as far as the Jordan, and let us each take from the forest a piece of timber, so that we may build for ourselves a place to live there.” And he said, “Go.”
2 Kings 6:3	And one of them said, “Then you, too, should go with your servants.” And he answered, “I will go.”
2 Kings 6:4	And he went with them. And when they had arrived at the Jordan, they were cutting down wood.
2 Kings 6:5	Then it happened that, while someone was cutting timber, the iron of the ax fell into the water. And he cried out and said: “Alas, alas, alas, my lord! For this thing was borrowed.”
2 Kings 6:6	Then the man of God said, “Where did it fall?” And he indicated to him the place. Then he cut off a piece of wood, and he threw it in. And the iron floated up.
2 Kings 6:7	And he said, “Take it.” And he extended his hand, and took it.
2 Kings 6:8	Now the king of Syria was fighting against Israel, and he took counsel with his servants, saying, “In this and that place, let us set up an ambush.”
2 Kings 6:9	And so the man of God sent to the king of Israel, saying: “Take care not to pass by that place. For the Syrians are there in ambush.”
2 Kings 6:10	And so the king of Israel sent to the place which the man of God had told him, and he prevented it. And he preserved himself, concerning that place, not merely once or twice.
2 Kings 6:11	And the heart of the king of Syria was disturbed over this matter. And calling together his servants, he said, “Why have you not revealed to me the one who is betraying me to the king of Israel?”
2 Kings 6:12	And one of his servants said: “By no means, my lord the king! Rather it is the prophet Elisha, who is in Israel, who is revealing to the king of Israel every word whatsoever that you will speak in your conclave.”
2 Kings 6:13	And he said to them, “Go, and see where he is, so that I may send and capture him.” And they reported to him, saying, “Behold, he is in Dothan.”
2 Kings 6:14	Therefore, he sent horses, and chariots, and experienced soldiers to that place. And when they had arrived in the night, they encircled the city.
2 Kings 6:15	Now the servant of the man of God, arising at first light, went out and saw the army all around the city, with horses and chariots. And he reported it to him, saying: “Alas, alas, alas, my lord! What shall we do?”
2 Kings 6:16	But he responded: “Do not be afraid. For there are more with us than with them.”
2 Kings 6:17	And when Elisha had prayed, he said, “O Lord, open the eyes of this one, so that he may see.” And the Lord opened the eyes of the servant, and he saw. And behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire, all around Elisha.
2 Kings 6:18	Then truly, the enemies descended to him. But Elisha prayed to the Lord, saying: “Strike, I beg you, this people with blindness.” And the Lord struck them, so that they would not see, in accord with the word of Elisha.
2 Kings 6:19	Then Elisha said to them: “This is not the way, and this is not the city. Follow me, and I will reveal to you the man whom you are seeking.” Then he led them into Samaria.
2 Kings 6:20	And when they had entered into Samaria, Elisha said, “O Lord, open the eyes of these ones, so that they may see.” And the Lord opened their eyes, and they saw themselves to be in the midst of Samaria.
2 Kings 6:21	And the king of Israel, when he had seen them, said to Elisha, “My father, should I not strike them?”
2 Kings 6:22	And he said: “You should not strike them. For you did not capture them with your sword or bow, so that you might strike them. Instead, set bread and water before them, so that they may eat and drink, and then go to their lord.”
2 Kings 6:23	And a great preparation of foods was placed before them. And they ate and drank. And he dismissed them. And they went away to their lord. And the robbers of Syria no longer came into the land of Israel.
2 Kings 6:24	Now it happened that, after these things, Benhadad, the king of Syria, gathered together his entire army, and he ascended and was besieging Samaria.
2 Kings 6:25	And a great famine occurred in Samaria. And it was blockaded for a long time, until the head of a donkey was sold for eighty pieces of silver, and one fourth part of a pint of pigeons’ dung sold for five silver coins.
2 Kings 6:26	And as the king of Israel was passing by the wall, a certain woman cried out to him, saying, “Save me, my lord the king!”
2 Kings 6:27	And he said: “If the Lord does not save you, how am I able to save you? From the grain floor, or from the wine press?” And the king said to her, “What is the matter with you?” And she responded:
2 Kings 6:28	“This woman said to me: ‘Give your son, so that we may eat him today, and we will eat my son tomorrow.’
2 Kings 6:29	Therefore, we cooked my son, and we ate him. And I said to her on the next day, ‘Give your son, so that we may eat him.’ But she concealed her son.”
2 Kings 6:30	When the king had heard this, he tore his garments, and he passed along the wall. And all the people saw the haircloth that he had worn underneath, beside his flesh.
2 Kings 6:31	And the king said, “May God do these things to me, and may he add these other things, if the head of Elisha, the son of Shaphat, will remain on him this day!”
2 Kings 6:32	Now Elisha was sitting in his house, and the elders were sitting with him. And so he sent a man ahead. And before that messenger arrived, he said to the elders: “Do you not know that this son of a murderer is sending someone to cut off my head? Therefore, watch, and when the messenger arrives, close the door. And you shall not permit him to enter. For behold, the sound of his lord’s feet is behind him.”
2 Kings 6:33	While he was still speaking to them, the messenger appeared who was sent to him. And he said: “Behold, such a great evil is from the Lord! What more should I expect from the Lord?”
2 Kings 7:1	Then Elisha said: “Listen to the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord: Tomorrow, at this time, one measure of fine wheat flour will be one silver coin, and two measures of barley will be one silver coin, at the gate of Samaria.”
2 Kings 7:2	And one of the leaders, upon whose hand the king leaned, responding to the man of God, said, “Even if the Lord will open the floodgates of heaven, how can what you say possibly be?” And he said, “You will see it with your own eyes, and you will not eat from it.”
2 Kings 7:3	Now there were four lepers beside the entrance of the gate. And they said one to another: “Should we choose to stay here until we die?
2 Kings 7:4	If we choose to enter the city, we will die from the famine. And if we remain here, we also will die. Therefore, come and let us flee over to the camp of the Syrians. If they spare us, we will live. But if they choose to kill us, we will die anyway.”
2 Kings 7:5	Therefore, they rose up in the evening, so that they might go to the camp of the Syrians. And when they had arrived at the beginning of the camp of the Syrians, they found no one in that place.
2 Kings 7:6	For indeed, the Lord had caused them to hear, in the camp of Syria, the sound of chariots and horses, and a very numerous army. And they said one to another: “Behold, the king of Israel has paid wages to the kings of the Hittites and of the Egyptians against us. And they will overwhelm us.”
2 Kings 7:7	Therefore, they rose up and fled away in the dark. And they left behind their tents and horses and donkeys in the camp. And they fled, desiring to save so much as their own lives.
2 Kings 7:8	And so, when these lepers had arrived at the beginning of the camp, they entered one tent, and they ate and drank. And they took from there silver, and gold, and clothing. And they went away and hid it. And they returned again to another tent, and similarly, carrying away from there, they hid it.
2 Kings 7:9	Then they said one to another: “We are not doing the right thing. For this is a day of good news. If we remain silent and refuse to report it until morning, we will be charged with a crime. Come, let us go and report it in the court of the king.”
2 Kings 7:10	And when they had arrived at the gate of the city, they explained to them, saying: “We went into the camp of the Syrians, and we found no one in that place, except horses and donkeys tied, and the tents still standing.”
2 Kings 7:11	Therefore, the gatekeepers went and reported it in the palace of the king.
2 Kings 7:12	And he rose up in the night, and he said to his servants: “I tell you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that we are suffering from famine, and therefore they have gone out from the camp, and they lie hidden in the fields, saying: ‘When they will have gone out from the city, we will capture them alive, and then we will be able to enter the city.’ ”
2 Kings 7:13	But one of his servants responded: “Let us take the five horses that remain in the city (for there were no more amid the entire multitude of Israel, since the rest had been consumed), and sending, we will be able to explore.”
2 Kings 7:14	Therefore, they brought two horses. And the king sent them into the camp of the Syrians, saying, “Go, and see.”
2 Kings 7:15	And they went away after them, as far as the Jordan. But behold, the entire way was filled with clothing and vessels, which the Syrians had thrown aside when they were disturbed. And the messengers returned and told the king.
2 Kings 7:16	And the people, going out, pillaged the camp of the Syrians. And one measure of fine wheat flour went for one silver coin, and two measures of barley went for one silver coin, in accord with the word of the Lord.
2 Kings 7:17	Then the king stationed that leader, on whose hand he leaned, at the gate. And the crowd trampled him at the entrance of the gate. And he died, in accord with what the man of God had said when the king had descended to him.
2 Kings 7:18	And this happened in accord with the word of the man of God, which he had spoken to the king, when he said: “Two measures of barley will be one silver coin, and one measure of fine wheat flour will be one silver coin, at this same time tomorrow, at the gate of Samaria.”
2 Kings 7:19	Then that leader had responded to the man of God, and he had said, “Even if the Lord will open the floodgates of heaven, how can what you say possibly happen?” And he said to him, “You will see it with your own eyes, and you will not eat from it.”
2 Kings 7:20	Therefore, it happened to him just as it had been predicted. For the people trampled him at the gate, and he died.
2 Kings 8:1	Now Elisha spoke to the woman, whose son he had caused to live, saying: “Rise up. Go, you and your household, and sojourn in whatever place you can find. For the Lord has called forth a famine, and it shall overwhelm the land for seven years.”
2 Kings 8:2	And she rose up, and she acted in accord with the word of the man of God. And going with her household, she sojourned in the land of the Philistines for many days.
2 Kings 8:3	And when the seven years had ended, the woman returned from the land of the Philistines. And she departed, so that she might petition the king on behalf of her house and on behalf of her fields.
2 Kings 8:4	Now the king was speaking with Gehazi, the servant of the man of God, saying, “Describe for me all the great deeds that Elisha has done.”
2 Kings 8:5	And as he was describing for the king the manner in which he had raised the dead, the woman appeared, whose son he had restored to life, crying out to the king on behalf of her house and on behalf of her fields. And Gehazi said, “My lord the king, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Elisha raised up.”
2 Kings 8:6	And the king questioned the woman. And she explained it to him. And the king appointed a eunuch to her, saying, “Restore to her all that is hers, with all the proceeds of the fields, from the day that she left the land until the present.”
2 Kings 8:7	Also, Elisha arrived in Damascus, and Benhadad, the king of Syria, was ill. And they reported to him, saying, “The man of God has arrived here.”
2 Kings 8:8	And the king said to Hazael: “Take with you gifts. And go to meet the man of God. And consult the Lord through him, saying: ‘Will I be able to escape from this, my infirmity?’ ”
2 Kings 8:9	And so, Hazael went to meet him, having with him gifts, and all the goods of Damascus, the burdens of forty camels. And when he had stood before him, he said: “Your son, Benhadad, the king of Syria, sent me to you, saying: ‘Will I be able to be healed from this, my infirmity?’ ”
2 Kings 8:10	And Elisha said to him: “Go, tell him: ‘You will be healed.’ But the Lord has revealed to me that, dying he shall die.”
2 Kings 8:11	And he stood beside him, and he was so troubled that his face became flushed. And the man of God wept.
2 Kings 8:12	And Hazael said to him, “Why is my lord weeping?” And he said: “Because I know the evil that you will do to the sons of Israel. Their fortified cities you will burn with fire. And their young men you will kill with the sword. And you will destroy their little ones, and tear open the pregnant women.”
2 Kings 8:13	And Hazael said, “But what am I, your servant, a dog, that I would do this great thing?” And Elisha said, “The Lord has revealed to me that you will be the king of Syria.”
2 Kings 8:14	And when he had departed from Elisha, he went to his lord, who said to him, “What did Elisha say to you?” And he responded: “He said to me, ‘You shall receive health.’ ”
2 Kings 8:15	And when the next day had arrived, he took a small covering, and poured water on it, and he spread it over his face. And when he died, Hazael reigned in his place.
2 Kings 8:16	In the fifth year of Joram, the son of Ahab, the king of Israel, and of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah: Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat, reigned as the king of Judah.
2 Kings 8:17	He was thirty-two years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for eight years in Jerusalem.
2 Kings 8:18	And he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, just as the house of Ahab had walked. For the daughter of Ahab was his wife. And he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord.
2 Kings 8:19	But the Lord was not willing to destroy Judah, because of David, his servant, just as he had promised him, so that he might grant a light to him and to his sons, for all days.
2 Kings 8:20	In his days, Idumea drew apart, so as not to be under Judah, and they appointed a king for themselves.
2 Kings 8:21	And so, Jehoram went to Zair, and all the chariots with him. And he rose up in the night, and he struck down the Idumeans who had surrounded him, and the leaders of the chariots. But the people fled to their tents.
2 Kings 8:22	And Idumea drew apart, so as not to be under Judah, even to this day. Then Libnah also drew apart, at the same time.
2 Kings 8:23	Now the rest of the words of Jehoram, and all that he did, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2 Kings 8:24	And Jehoram slept with his fathers, and he was buried with them in the city of David. And Ahaziah, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 8:25	In the twelfth year of Joram, the son of Ahab, the king of Israel: Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram, the king of Judah, reigned.
2 Kings 8:26	Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for one year in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Athaliah, the daughter of Omri, the king of Israel.
2 Kings 8:27	And he walked in the ways of the house of Ahab. And he did what is evil before the Lord, just as the house of Ahab did. For he was the son-in-law of the house of Ahab.
2 Kings 8:28	Also, he went with Joram, the son of Ahab, in order to fight against Hazael, the king of Syria, at Ramoth Gilead. And the Syrians had wounded Joram.
2 Kings 8:29	And he turned back, so that he might be cured at Jezreel. For the Syrians had wounded him at Ramoth, fighting against Hazael, the king of Syria. Then Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram, the king of Judah, descended to visit Joram, the son of Ahab, at Jezreel, because he was sick there.
2 Kings 9:1	Now the prophet Elisha called one of the sons of the prophets, and he said to him: “Gird your waist, and take this little bottle of oil in your hand, and go to Ramoth Gilead.
2 Kings 9:2	And when you arrive in that place, you will see Jehu, the son of Jehoshaphat, the son of Nimshi. And upon entering, you shall raise him up from the midst of his brothers, and you shall lead him into an inner room.
2 Kings 9:3	And taking the little bottle of oil, you shall pour it upon his head, and you shall say: ‘Thus says the Lord: I have anointed you as king over Israel.’ And you shall open the door and flee. And you shall not remain in that place.”
2 Kings 9:4	Therefore, the young man, a servant of the prophet, went away to Ramoth Gilead.
2 Kings 9:5	And he entered that place, and behold, the leaders of the army were sitting there, and he said, “I have a word for you, O prince.” And Jehu said, “For which one among us all?” And he said, “For you, O prince.”
2 Kings 9:6	And he rose up and entered into the room. And he poured the oil on his head, and he said: “Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: ‘I have anointed you as king over Israel, the people of the Lord.
2 Kings 9:7	And you will shall strike down the house of Ahab, your lord. And I will avenge the blood of my servants, the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the Lord, from the hand of Jezebel.
2 Kings 9:8	And I will destroy the entire house of Ahab. And I will cause to pass away from Ahab, whatever urinates against a wall, and whatever is lame, and whatever is least in Israel.
2 Kings 9:9	And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha, the son of Ahijah.
2 Kings 9:10	Also, the dogs will consume Jezebel, in the field of Jezreel. Neither will there be anyone who may bury her.’ ” And then he opened the door, and he fled.
2 Kings 9:11	Then Jehu went out to the servants of his lord. And they said to him: “Is everything well? Why has this insane man come to you?” And he said to them, “You know the man, and what he said.”
2 Kings 9:12	But they responded, “That is false; instead, you should tell us.” And he said to them, “He said to me these certain things, and he said, ‘Thus says the Lord: I have anointed you as king over Israel.’ ”
2 Kings 9:13	And so they hurried away. And each one, taking his cloak, placed it under his feet, in the manner of a seat for judgment. And they sounded the trumpet, and they said: “Jehu reigns!”
2 Kings 9:14	Then Jehu, the son of Jehoshaphat, the son of Nimshi, conspired against Joram. Now Joram had besieged Ramoth Gilead, he and all of Israel, against Hazael, the king of Syria.
2 Kings 9:15	And he had returned, so that he might be cured at Jezreel, because of his wounds. For the Syrians had struck him, while he was fighting against Hazael, the king of Syria. And Jehu said, “If it pleases you, let no one depart, fleeing from the city; otherwise he may go and give a report in Jezreel.”
2 Kings 9:16	And he climbed up and set out for Jezreel, because Joram was sick there, and Ahaziah, the king of Judah, had gone down to visit Joram.
2 Kings 9:17	And so the watchman, who was standing upon the tower of Jezreel, saw the crowd of Jehu arriving, and he said, “I see a crowd.” And Joram said: “Take a chariot, and send to meet them. And those who go should say, ‘Is everything well?’ ”
2 Kings 9:18	Therefore, he who had climbed into the chariot went away to meet him, and he said, “The king says this: ‘Is everything peaceful?’ ” And Jehu said: “What peace is there for you? Pass by and follow me.” Also the watchman gave a report, saying, “The messenger went to them, but he did not return.”
2 Kings 9:19	And then he sent a second chariot of horses. And he went to them, and he said, “The king says this: ‘Is there peace?’ ” And Jehu said: “What peace is there for you? Pass by and follow me.”
2 Kings 9:20	Then the watchman gave a report, saying: “He went all the way to them, but he did not return. But their advance is like the advance of Jehu, the son of Nimshi. For he advances precipitously.”
2 Kings 9:21	And Joram said, “Yoke the chariot.” And they yoked his chariot. And Joram, the king of Israel, and Ahaziah, the king of Judah, departed, each in his chariot. And they went out to meet Jehu. And they met him in the field of Naboth, the Jezreelite.
2 Kings 9:22	And when Joram had seen Jehu, he said, “Is there peace, Jehu?” And he responded: “What is peace? For still the fornications of your mother, Jezebel, and her many poisons, are thriving.”
2 Kings 9:23	Then Joram turned his hand, and, fleeing, he said to Ahaziah, “Treachery, Ahaziah!”
2 Kings 9:24	But Jehu bent his bow with his hand, and he struck Joram between the shoulders. And the arrow went through his heart, and immediately he fell in his chariot.
2 Kings 9:25	And Jehu said to Bidkar, his commander: “Take and cast him into the field of Naboth, the Jezreelite. For I remember, when you and I, sitting in a chariot, were following Ahab, this man’s father, that the Lord lifted this burden upon him, saying:
2 Kings 9:26	‘Certainly, I will repay you in this field, says the Lord, for the blood of Naboth, and for the blood of his sons, which I saw yesterday, says the Lord.’ Therefore, take him now, and cast him into the field, in accord with the word of the Lord.”
2 Kings 9:27	But Ahaziah, the king of Judah, seeing this, fled along the way of the garden house. And Jehu pursued him, and he said, “Strike this one also in his chariot.” And they struck him on the ascent to Gur, which is beside Ibleam. But he fled into Megiddo, and he died there.
2 Kings 9:28	And his servants placed him upon his chariot, and they took him to Jerusalem. And they buried him in the sepulcher with his fathers, in the city of David.
2 Kings 9:29	In the eleventh year of Joram, the son of Ahab, Ahaziah reigned over Judah.
2 Kings 9:30	And Jehu went into Jezreel. But Jezebel, hearing of his arrival, painted her eyes with cosmetics, and adorned her head. And she watched through a window,
2 Kings 9:31	as Jehu was entering through the gate. And she said, “Is it possible for there to be peace for Zimri, who killed his lord?”
2 Kings 9:32	And Jehu lifted up his face to the window, and he said, “Who is this woman?” And two or three eunuchs bowed down before him.
2 Kings 9:33	And he said to them, “Throw her down with force.” And they threw her forcefully, and the wall was splattered with her blood, and the hoofs of the horses trampled her.
2 Kings 9:34	And when he had entered, so that he might eat and drink, he said: “Go, and see to that cursed woman, and bury her. For she is the daughter of a king.”
2 Kings 9:35	But when they had gone, so that they might bury her, they found nothing but the skull, and the feet, and the ends of her hands.
2 Kings 9:36	And returning, they reported to him. And Jehu said: “It is the word of the Lord, which he spoke though his servant, Elijah the Tishbite, saying: ‘In the field of Jezreel, the dogs will consume the flesh of Jezebel.
2 Kings 9:37	And the flesh of Jezebel will be like dung upon the face of the earth, in the field of Jezreel, so that those who pass by may say: Is this that same Jezebel?’ ”
2 Kings 10:1	Now Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And so Jehu wrote letters, and he sent to Samaria, to the nobles of the city, and to those greater by birth, and to those who had raised Ahab’s sons, saying:
2 Kings 10:2	“Immediately when you receive these letters, you who have your lord’s sons, and chariots, and horses, and reinforced cities, and weapons,
2 Kings 10:3	choose him who is better and who pleases you from among the sons of your lord, and set him on the throne of his father, and fight for the house of your lord.”
2 Kings 10:4	But they were vehemently afraid, and they said: “Behold, two kings were not able to stand before him. So how will we be able to withstand him?”
2 Kings 10:5	Therefore, those who were in charge of the house, and the prefects of the city, and those greater by birth, and those who raised the sons, sent to Jehu, saying: “We are your servants. Whatever you will order, we will do. But we will not appoint a king for ourselves. Do whatever pleases you.”
2 Kings 10:6	Then he again wrote letters to them a second time, saying: “If you are mine, and if you obey me, take the heads of the sons of your lord, and come to me at Jezreel at this same hour tomorrow.” Now the sons of the king, being seventy men, were being raised with the nobles of the city.
2 Kings 10:7	And when the letters had arrived to them, they took the sons of the king, and they killed the seventy men. And they placed their heads in baskets, and they sent these to him at Jezreel.
2 Kings 10:8	Then a messenger arrived and reported to him, saying, “They have brought the heads of the king’s sons.” And he responded, “Place them in two piles, beside the entrance of the gate, until morning.”
2 Kings 10:9	And when it had become light, he went out. And standing there, he said to all the people: “You are just. If I have conspired against my lord, and if I have killed him, who has struck down all of these?
2 Kings 10:10	Now therefore, see that none of the words of the Lord has fallen to the ground, which the Lord spoke over the house of Ahab, and that the Lord has done what he spoke by the hand of his servant Elijah.”
2 Kings 10:11	And so, Jehu struck down all who had remained from the house of Ahab in Jezreel, and all his nobles and friends and priests, until no remnant of them was left behind.
2 Kings 10:12	And he rose up and went to Samaria. And when he had arrived at the shepherds’ cabin along the way,
2 Kings 10:13	he found the brothers of Ahaziah, the king of Judah, and he said to them, “Who are you?” And they responded, “We are the brothers of Ahaziah, and we are going down to greet the sons of the king, and the sons of the queen.”
2 Kings 10:14	And he said, “Take them alive.” And when they had taken them alive, they cut their throats at the cistern beside the cabin, forty-two men. And he did not leave any of them behind.
2 Kings 10:15	And when he had gone away from there, he found Jehonadab, the son of Rechab, coming to meet him, and he blessed him. And he said to him, “Is your heart upright, just as my heart is with your heart?” And Jehonadab said, “It is.” Then he said, “If it is, then give me your hand.” He gave his hand to him. And so he lifted him up to himself in the chariot.
2 Kings 10:16	And he said to him, “Come with me, and see my zeal for the Lord.” And he gave him a place in his chariot.
2 Kings 10:17	And he led him into Samaria. And he struck down all who were left behind of Ahab in Samaria, even to the last one, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he spoke through Elijah.
2 Kings 10:18	Then Jehu gathered together the entire people. And he said to them: “Ahab worshipped Baal a little, but I will worship him even more.
2 Kings 10:19	Now therefore, summon to me all the prophets of Baal, and all his servants, and all his priests. Let no one be permitted not to come, for great is the sacrifice from me to Baal. Whoever will fail to come, he shall not live.” Now Jehu was doing this treacherously, so that he might destroy the worshippers of Baal.
2 Kings 10:20	And he said: “Sanctify a day of solemnity for Baal.” And he summoned
2 Kings 10:21	and sent into all the borders of Israel. And all the servants of Baal came. There was left behind not even one who did not arrive. And they entered into the temple of Baal. And the house of Baal was filled, all the way from end to end.
2 Kings 10:22	And he said to those who were over the vestments, “Bring forth vestments for all the servants of Baal.” And they brought forth vestments for them.
2 Kings 10:23	And Jehu, upon entering the temple of Baal with Jehonadab, the son of Rechab, said to the worshippers of Baal, “Inquire and see that there is no one with you from the servants of the Lord, but only from the servants of Baal.”
2 Kings 10:24	Then they entered, so that they might offer victims and holocausts. But Jehu had prepared for himself eighty men outside. And he had said to them, “If anyone escapes from among these men, whom I have led into your hands, your life will take the place of his life.”
2 Kings 10:25	Then it happened that, when the holocaust had been completed, Jehu ordered his soldiers and officers, saying: “Enter and strike them down. Let no one escape.” And the soldiers and officers struck them down with the edge of the sword, and they cast them out. And they went into the city of the temple of Baal,
2 Kings 10:26	and they took away the statue from the shine of Baal, and they burned it up
2 Kings 10:27	and crushed it. They also tore down the temple of Baal, and they made it into a latrine, even to this day.
2 Kings 10:28	And thus did Jehu wipe away Baal from Israel.
2 Kings 10:29	Yet truly, he did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin. Neither did he forsake the golden calves, which were in Bethel and Dan.
2 Kings 10:30	Then the Lord said to Jehu: “Since you have diligently carried out what was right and pleasing in my eyes, and since you have accomplished, against the house of Ahab, all that was in my heart, your sons shall sit upon the throne of Israel, even to the fourth generation.”
2 Kings 10:31	But Jehu did not take care, so that he might walk in the law of the Lord, the God of Israel, with all his heart. For he did not withdraw from the sins of Jeroboam, who had caused Israel to sin.
2 Kings 10:32	In those days, the Lord began to be weary of Israel. And Hazael struck them throughout all the parts of Israel,
2 Kings 10:33	from the Jordan opposite the eastern region, in all the land of Gilead, and Gad, and Reuben, and Manasseh, from Aroer, which is above the torrent Arnon, in both Gilead and Bashan.
2 Kings 10:34	But the rest of the words of Jehu, and all that he did, and his strength, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2 Kings 10:35	And Jehu slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 10:36	Now the days during which Jehu reigned over Israel, in Samaria, were twenty-eight years.
2 Kings 11:1	Truly, Athaliah, the mother of Ahaziah, seeing that her son was dead, rose up and put to death all the royal offspring.
2 Kings 11:2	But Jehosheba, the daughter of king Joram, the sister of Ahaziah, taking Jehoash, the son of Ahaziah, stole him away from the midst of the sons of the king who were being killed, out of the bedroom, with his nurse. And she hid him from the face of Athaliah, so that he would not be killed.
2 Kings 11:3	And he was with her for six years, hidden in the house of the Lord. But Athaliah reigned over the land.
2 Kings 11:4	Then, in the seventh year, Jehoiada sent for and took centurions and soldiers, and he brought them to himself in the temple of the Lord. And he formed a pact with them. And taking an oath with them in the house of the Lord, he revealed to them the son of the king.
2 Kings 11:5	And he commanded them, saying: “This is the word that you must do.
2 Kings 11:6	Let one third part of you enter on the Sabbath, and keep watch on the house of the king. And let one third part be at the gate of Sur. And let one third part be at the gate behind the dwelling place of the shield bearers. And you shall keep the watch on the house of Mesha.
2 Kings 11:7	Yet truly, let two parts of you, all who depart on the Sabbath, keep watch over the house of the Lord concerning the king.
2 Kings 11:8	And you shall surround him, having weapons in your hands. But if anyone will have entered the precinct of the temple, let him be killed. And you shall be with the king, entering and departing.”
2 Kings 11:9	And the centurions acted in accord with all the things that Jehoiada, the priest, had instructed them. And taking each one of their men who would enter on the Sabbath, with those who would depart on the Sabbath, they went to Jehoiada, the priest.
2 Kings 11:10	And he gave to them the spears and weapons of king David, which were in the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 11:11	And they stood, each one having his weapons in his hand, before the right side of the temple, all the way to the left side of the altar and of the shrine, surrounding the king.
2 Kings 11:12	And he led forth the son of the king. And he placed the diadem on him, and the testimony. And they made him king, and they anointed him. And clapping their hands, they said: “The king lives!”
2 Kings 11:13	Then Athaliah heard the sound of the people running. And entering to the crowd at the temple of the Lord,
2 Kings 11:14	she saw the king standing upon a tribunal, according to custom, and the singers and trumpets near him, and all the people of the land rejoicing and sounding the trumpets. And she tore her garments, and she cried out: “Conspiracy! Conspiracy!”
2 Kings 11:15	But Jehoiada gave orders to the centurions who were over the army, and he said to them: “Lead her away, beyond the precinct of the temple. And whoever will have followed her, let him be struck with the sword.” For the priest had said, “Do not allow her to be killed in the temple of the Lord.”
2 Kings 11:16	And they laid hands on her. And they pushed her through the way by which horses enter, beside the palace. And she was killed there.
2 Kings 11:17	Then Jehoiada formed a covenant between the Lord, and the king and the people, so that they would be the people of the Lord; and between the king and the people.
2 Kings 11:18	And all the people of the land entered the temple of Baal, and they tore down his altars, and they thoroughly crushed the statues. Also, they killed Mattan, the priest of Baal, before the altar. And the priest placed guards in the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 11:19	And he took the centurions, and the legions of the Cherethites and Pelethites, and all the people of the land, and together they led the king from the house of the Lord. And they went by way of the gate of the shield bearers into the palace. And he sat upon the throne of the kings.
2 Kings 11:20	And all the people of the land rejoiced. And the city was quieted. But Athaliah was slain with the sword at the house of the king.
2 Kings 11:21	Now Jehoash was seven years old when he had begun to reign.
2 Kings 12:1	In the seventh year of Jehu, Jehoash reigned. And he reigned for forty years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Zebiah from Beersheba.
2 Kings 12:2	And Jehoash did what was right in the sight of the Lord, during all the days that Jehoiada, the priest, taught him.
2 Kings 12:3	Yet still he did not take away the high places. For the people were still immolating, and burning incense, in the high places.
2 Kings 12:4	And Jehoash said to the priests: “All of the money for the holy things, which has been brought into the temple of the Lord from those who pass by, which is offered for the price of a soul, and which they bring into the temple of the Lord willingly, from their own free heart:
2 Kings 12:5	let the priests, according to their ranks, take and use it in order to repair the surfaces of the house, wherever they see anything in need of repair.”
2 Kings 12:6	And yet, even until the twenty-third year of king Jehoash, the priests did not repair the surfaces of the temple.
2 Kings 12:7	And king Jehoash called the high priest, Jehoiada, and the priests, saying to them: “Why have you not repaired the surfaces of the temple? Therefore, you may no longer accept money according to your ranks. Instead, return it in order that the temple may be repaired.”
2 Kings 12:8	And so the priests were prohibited from accepting any more money from the people to repair the surfaces of the house.
2 Kings 12:9	And the high priest, Jehoiada, took a certain chest, and he opened a hole in the top, and he placed it beside the altar, to the right of those who were entering the house of the Lord. And the priests who kept the doors put all the money in it which was being brought into the temple of the Lord.
2 Kings 12:10	And when they saw that there was a great amount of money in the chest, the scribe of the king and the high priest went up and poured it out. And they counted the money that was found in the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 12:11	And they gave it out, by number and measure, to the hands of those who were over the masons of the house of the Lord. And they weighed it out to the carpenters and masons, to those who were working in the house of the Lord
2 Kings 12:12	and restoring the surfaces, and to those who were cutting stones, and buying timber and stones to be cut, so that the repairs to the house of the Lord might be finished: for all that was needed toward the expenses in order to strengthen the house.
2 Kings 12:13	Yet truly, from the same money, they did not make for the temple of the Lord water pitchers, or small hooks, or censers, or trumpets, or any vessel of gold or silver, from the money that was brought into the temple of the Lord.
2 Kings 12:14	For it was given to those who were doing the work, so that the temple of the Lord might be repaired.
2 Kings 12:15	And they did not ration the money to the men who received it in order to distribute it to the artisans. Instead, they bestowed it with faith.
2 Kings 12:16	Yet truly, the money for offenses and the money for sins, they did not bring into the temple of the Lord, since it was for the priests.
2 Kings 12:17	Then Hazael, the king of Syria, ascended and fought against Gath, and he captured it. And he directed his face, so that he might ascend against Jerusalem.
2 Kings 12:18	For this reason, Jehoash, the king of Judah, took all the sanctified things, which Jehoshaphat, and Jehoram, and Ahaziah, his fathers, the kings of Judah, had consecrated and which he himself had offered, and all the silver that could be found in the treasuries of the temple of the Lord and in the palace of the king, and he sent it to Hazael, the king of Syria. And so he withdrew from Jerusalem.
2 Kings 12:19	Now the rest of the words of Jehoash, and all that he did, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2 Kings 12:20	Then his servants rose up and conspired among themselves. And they struck down Jehoash, at the house of Millo, on the descent of Silla.
2 Kings 12:21	For Jozacar, the son of Shimeath, and Jehozabad, the son of Shomer, his servants, struck him, and he died. And they buried him with his fathers in the city of David. And Amaziah, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 13:1	In the twenty-third year of Joash, the son of Ahaziah, the king of Judah, Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, reigned over Israel, in Samaria, for seventeen years.
2 Kings 13:2	And he did evil before the Lord. And he followed the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin. And he did not turn aside from these.
2 Kings 13:3	And the fury of the Lord was enraged against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of Hazael, the king of Syria, and into the hand of Benhadad, the son of Hazael, during all the days.
2 Kings 13:4	But Jehoahaz petitioned the face of the Lord, and the Lord heeded him. For he saw the anguish of Israel, because the king of Syria had oppressed them.
2 Kings 13:5	And the Lord gave a savior to Israel. And they were freed from the hand of the king of Syria. And the sons of Israel lived in their tabernacles, just as yesterday and the day before.
2 Kings 13:6	Yet truly, they did not withdraw from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, who had caused Israel to sin. Instead, they walked by them. And there was even a sacred grove still remaining in Samaria.
2 Kings 13:7	And there was left to Jehoahaz from the people nothing but fifty horsemen, and ten chariots, and ten thousand foot soldiers. For the king of Syria had killed them, and he had reduced them to become like dust on a threshing floor.
2 Kings 13:8	But the rest of the words of Jehoahaz, and all that he did, and his strength, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2 Kings 13:9	And Jehoahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. And Joash, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 13:10	In the thirty-seventh year of Jehoash, the king of Judah, Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, reigned over Israel, in Samaria, for sixteen years.
2 Kings 13:11	And he did what is evil in the sight of the Lord. He did not turn aside from all the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin. Instead, he walked by them.
2 Kings 13:12	But the rest of the words of Joash, and all that he did, and his strength, the manner in which he fought against Amaziah, the king of Judah, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2 Kings 13:13	And Joash slept with his fathers. Then Jeroboam sat upon his throne. And Joash was buried in Samaria, with the kings of Israel.
2 Kings 13:14	Now Elisha was sick of the infirmity from which he also died. And Joash, the king of Israel, descended to him. And he was weeping before him, and saying: “My father, my father! The chariot of Israel and its driver!”
2 Kings 13:15	And Elisha said to him, “Bring a bow and arrows.” And when he had brought a bow and arrows to him,
2 Kings 13:16	he said to the king of Israel, “Place your hand upon the bow.” And when he had placed his hand, Elisha place his own hands over the hands of the king.
2 Kings 13:17	And he said, “Open the window toward the east.” And when he had opened it, Elisha said, “Shoot an arrow.” And he shot it. And Elisha said: “It is the arrow of the salvation of the Lord, and the arrow of salvation against Syria. And you shall strike the Syrians at Aphek, until you consume them.”
2 Kings 13:18	And he said, “Take the arrows.” And when he had taken them, he then said to him, “Strike an arrow against the ground.” And when he had struck three times, and he had stood still,
2 Kings 13:19	the man of God became angry against him. And he said: “If you had struck five or six or seven times, you would have struck down Syria, even until it was consumed. But now you will strike it three times.”
2 Kings 13:20	Then Elisha died, and they buried him. And the robbers from Moab came into the land in the same year.
2 Kings 13:21	But certain ones who were burying a man saw the robbers, and they cast the dead body into the sepulcher of Elisha. But when it had touched the bones of Elisha, the man revived, and he stood upon his feet.
2 Kings 13:22	Now Hazael, the king of Syria, afflicted Israel during all the days of Jehoahaz.
2 Kings 13:23	But the Lord took pity on them, and he returned to them, because of his covenant, which he had made with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob. And he was not willing to destroy them, nor to cast them out completely, even to the present time.
2 Kings 13:24	Then Hazael, the king of Syria, died. And Benhadad, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 13:25	Now Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz, by a just war, took the cities from the hand of Benhadad, the son of Hazael, which he had taken from the hand of Jehoahaz, his father. Jehoash struck him three times, and he restored the cities to Israel.
2 Kings 14:1	In the second year of Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz, the king of Israel: Amaziah, the son of Jehoash, reigned as king of Judah.
2 Kings 14:2	He was twenty-five years old when he had begun to reign. And he reigned for twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Jehoaddin from Jerusalem.
2 Kings 14:3	And he did what is right before the Lord, yet truly, not like David, his father. He acted in accord with all the things that his father Jehoash did,
2 Kings 14:4	except for this alone: he did not take away the high places. For still the people were immolating, and burning incense, in the high places.
2 Kings 14:5	And when he had obtained the kingdom, he struck down those of his servants who had killed his father, the king.
2 Kings 14:6	But the sons of those who had been killed he did not put to death, in accord with what was written in the book of the law of Moses, just as the Lord instructed, saying: “The fathers shall not die for the sons, and the sons shall not die for the fathers. Instead, each one shall die for his own sin.”
2 Kings 14:7	He struck down ten thousand men of Idumea, in the Valley of the Salt Pits. And he captured ‘the Rock’ in battle, and he called its name ‘Subdued by God,’ even to the present day.
2 Kings 14:8	Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, the king of Israel, saying: “Come, and let us see one another.”
2 Kings 14:9	And Jehoash, the king of Israel, sent a reply to Amaziah, the king of Judah, saying: “A thistle of Lebanon sent to a cedar, which is in Lebanon, saying: ‘Give your daughter as wife to my son.’ And the beasts of the forest, which are in Lebanon, passed by and trampled the thistle.
2 Kings 14:10	You have struck and prevailed over Idumea. And your heart has lifted you up. Be content with your own glory, and be seated your own house. Why would you provoke evil, so that you would fall, and Judah with you?”
2 Kings 14:11	But Amaziah was not quieted. And so Jehoash, the king of Israel, went up. And he and Amaziah, the king of Judah, saw one another at Beth-shemesh, a town in Judah.
2 Kings 14:12	And Judah was struck down before Israel, and they fled, each to their own tents.
2 Kings 14:13	And truly, Jehoash, the king of Israel, captured Amaziah, the king of Judah, the son of Jehoash, the son of Ahaziah, at Beth-shemesh. And he brought him to Jerusalem. And he breached the wall of Jerusalem, from the gate of Ephraim as far as the gate of the Corner, four hundred cubits.
2 Kings 14:14	And he took away all the gold and silver, and all the vessels, which were found in the house of the Lord and in the treasuries of the king, and he returned to Samaria with hostages.
2 Kings 14:15	But the rest of the words of Jehoash, which he accomplished, and his strength, with which he fought against Amaziah, the king of Judah, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2 Kings 14:16	And Jehoash slept with his fathers, and he was buried in Samaria, with the kings of Israel. And Jeroboam, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 14:17	Now Amaziah, the son of Jehoash, the king of Judah, lived for fifteen years after the death of Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz, the king of Israel.
2 Kings 14:18	And the rest of the words of Amaziah, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2 Kings 14:19	And they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem. And he fled to Lachish. And they sent after him, to Lachish, and they killed him there.
2 Kings 14:20	And they carried him away on horses. And he was buried in Jerusalem with his fathers, in the city of David.
2 Kings 14:21	Then all the people of Judah took Azariah, at sixteen years from birth, and they appointed him as king in place of his father, Amaziah.
2 Kings 14:22	He built up Elath, and he restored it to Judah, after which the king slept with his fathers.
2 Kings 14:23	In the fifteenth year of Amaziah, the son of Jehoash, the king of Judah: Jeroboam, the son of Jehoash, the king of Israel, reigned, in Samaria, for forty-one years.
2 Kings 14:24	And he did what is evil before the Lord. He did not withdraw from all the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin.
2 Kings 14:25	He restored the borders of Israel, from the entrance of Hamath as far as the Sea of the Wilderness, in accord with the word of the Lord, the God of Israel, which he spoke through his servant, the prophet Jonah, the son of Amittai, who was from Gath, which is in Hepher.
2 Kings 14:26	For the Lord saw the exceedingly bitter affliction of Israel, and that they were being consumed, even to those who were enclosed in prison, and even to the least ones, and that there was no one who would help Israel.
2 Kings 14:27	But the Lord did not say that he would wipe away the name of Israel from under heaven. So instead, he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam, the son of Jehoash.
2 Kings 14:28	But the rest of the words of Jeroboam, and all that he did, and his strength, with which he went to battle, and the manner in which he restored Damascus and Hamath to Judah, in Israel, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2 Kings 14:29	And Jeroboam slept with his fathers, the kings of Israel. And Zechariah, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 15:1	In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam, the king of Israel: Azariah, the son of Amaziah, reigned as king of Judah.
2 Kings 15:2	He was sixteen years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for fifty-two years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Jecoliah of Jerusalem.
2 Kings 15:3	And he did what was pleasing before the Lord, in accord with all that his father, Amaziah, did.
2 Kings 15:4	Yet truly, he did not demolish the high places. And still the people were sacrificing, and burning incense, in the high places.
2 Kings 15:5	Now the Lord struck the king, and he became a leper, even until the day of his death. And he was living in a separate house by himself. And truly, Jotham, the son of the king, governed the palace, and he judged the people of the land.
2 Kings 15:6	Now the rest of the words of Azariah, and all that he did, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2 Kings 15:7	And Azariah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his ancestors in the city of David. And Jotham, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 15:8	In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah, the king of Judah: Zechariah, the son of Jeroboam, reigned over Israel, in Samaria, for six months.
2 Kings 15:9	And he did what is evil before the Lord, just as his fathers had done. He did not withdraw from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin.
2 Kings 15:10	Then Shallum, the son of Jabesh, conspired against him. And he struck him openly, and killed him. And he reigned in his place.
2 Kings 15:11	Now the rest of the words of Zechariah, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2 Kings 15:12	This was the word of the Lord, which he spoke to Jehu, saying: “Your sons, even to the fourth generation, shall sit upon the throne of Israel.” And so it happened.
2 Kings 15:13	Shallum, the son of Jabesh, reigned in the thirty-ninth year of Azariah, the king of Judah. And he reigned for one month, in Samaria.
2 Kings 15:14	And Menahem, the son of Gadi, ascended from Tirzah. And he went into Samaria, and he struck Shallum, the son of Jabesh, in Samaria. And he killed him, and reigned in his place.
2 Kings 15:15	Now the rest of the words of Shallum, and his conspiracy, by which he carried out treachery, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2 Kings 15:16	Then Menahem struck Tirzah, and all who were in it, and its borders around Tirzah. For they were not willing to open to him. And he killed all of its pregnant women, and he tore them open.
2 Kings 15:17	In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah, the king of Judah: Menahem, son of Gadi, reigned over Israel for ten years, in Samaria.
2 Kings 15:18	And he did what was evil before the Lord. He did not withdraw from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin, during all his days.
2 Kings 15:19	Then Pul, the king of the Assyrians, came into the land. And Menahem gave Pul one thousand talents of silver, so that he would be a help to him, and so that he might strengthen his kingdom.
2 Kings 15:20	And Menahem proclaimed a tax upon Israel, on all who were powerful and wealthy, so that each one would give to the king of the Assyrians fifty shekels of silver. Then the king of the Assyrians turned back, and he did not remain in the land.
2 Kings 15:21	Now the rest of the words of Menahem, and all that he did, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2 Kings 15:22	And Menahem slept with his fathers. And Pekahiah, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 15:23	In the fiftieth year of Azariah, the king of Judah: Pekahiah, the son of Menahem, reigned over Israel, in Samaria, for two years.
2 Kings 15:24	And he did what was evil before the Lord. He did not withdraw from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin.
2 Kings 15:25	Then Pekah, the son of Remaliah, his commander, conspired against him. And he struck him in Samaria, in the tower of the king’s house, near Argob and Arieh, and with him fifty men from the sons of the Gileadites. And he killed him, and reigned in his place.
2 Kings 15:26	Now the rest of the words of Pekahiah, and all that he did, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2 Kings 15:27	In the fifty-second year of Azariah, the king of Judah: Pekah, the son of Remaliah, reigned over Israel, in Samaria, for twenty years.
2 Kings 15:28	And he did what was evil before the Lord. He did not withdraw from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin.
2 Kings 15:29	In the days of Pekah, the king of Israel, Tiglath-pileser, the king of Assyria, arrived and captured Ijon, and Abel Bethmaacah, and Janoah, and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, and the entire land of Naphtali. And he took them away into Assyria.
2 Kings 15:30	Then Hoshea, the son of Elah, conspired and carried out treachery against Pekah, the son of Remaliah. And he struck him, and killed him. And he reigned in his place, in the twentieth year of Jotham, the son of Uzziah.
2 Kings 15:31	Now the rest of the words of Pekah, and all that he did, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel?
2 Kings 15:32	In the second year of Pekah, the son of Remaliah, the king of Israel: Jotham, son of Uzziah, reigned as king of Judah.
2 Kings 15:33	He was twenty-five years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for sixteen years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok.
2 Kings 15:34	And he did what was pleasing before the Lord. In accord with all that his father, Uzziah, had done, so he did.
2 Kings 15:35	Yet truly, he did not take away the high places. And still the people were immolating, and burning incense, in the high places. But he edified the gate of the house of the Lord to be very sublime.
2 Kings 15:36	Now the rest of the words of Jotham, and all that he did, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2 Kings 15:37	In those days, the Lord began to send, into Judah, Rezin, the king of Syria, and Pekah, the son of Remaliah.
2 Kings 15:38	And Jotham slept with his fathers, and he was buried with them in the city of David, his father. And Ahaz, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 16:1	In the seventeenth year of Pekah, the son of Remaliah: Ahaz, the son of Jotham, reigned as king of Judah.
2 Kings 16:2	Ahaz was twenty years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for sixteen years in Jerusalem. He did not do what was pleasing in the sight of the Lord, his God, as his father David did.
2 Kings 16:3	Instead, he walked in the way of the kings of Israel. Moreover, he even consecrated his son, making him pass through fire, in accord with the idols of the nations that the Lord destroyed before the sons of Israel.
2 Kings 16:4	Also, he was immolating victims, and burning incense, in the high places, and on the hills, and under every leafy tree.
2 Kings 16:5	Then Rezin, the king of Syria, and Pekah, the son of Remaliah, the king of Israel, ascended to do battle against Jerusalem. And they besieged Ahaz, but they were not able to overcome him.
2 Kings 16:6	At that time, Rezin, the king of Syria, restored Elath to Syria, and he expelled the Judeans from Elath. And the Idumeans went into Elath, and they have lived there, even to this day.
2 Kings 16:7	Then Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath-pileser, the king of the Assyrians, saying: “I am your servant, and I am your son. Ascend and accomplish my salvation from the hand of the king of Syria, and from the hand of the king of Israel, who have risen up together against me.”
2 Kings 16:8	And when he had collected the silver and the gold that could be found in the house of the Lord, and in the treasuries of the king, he sent it as a gift to the king of the Assyrians.
2 Kings 16:9	And he agreed to his will. For the king of the Assyrians ascended against Damascus, and he laid waste to it. And he carried away its inhabitants to Cyrene. But Rezin he killed.
2 Kings 16:10	And king Ahaz traveled to Damascus to meet Tiglath-pileser, the king of the Assyrians. And when he had seen the altar of Damascus, king Ahaz sent to Uriah, the priest, its pattern and likeness, according to all of its work.
2 Kings 16:11	And Uriah, the priest, constructed an altar in accord with all that king Ahaz had commanded from Damascus. Uriah, the priest, did so, until king Ahaz arrived from Damascus.
2 Kings 16:12	And when the king had arrived from Damascus, he saw the altar, and he venerated it. And he went up and immolated holocausts, with his own sacrifice.
2 Kings 16:13	And he offered libations, and he poured out the blood of the peace offerings, which he had offered, upon the altar.
2 Kings 16:14	But the altar of brass, which was before the Lord, he took away from the face of the temple, and from the place of the altar, and from the place of the temple of the Lord. And he positioned it at the side of the altar, toward the north.
2 Kings 16:15	Also, king Ahaz instructed Uriah, the priest, saying: “Upon the great altar, offer the morning holocaust, and the evening sacrifice, and the holocaust of the king, and his sacrifice, and the holocaust of the entire people of the land, and their sacrifices. But their libations, and all the blood of the holocaust, and all the blood of the victim, you shall pour out upon it. Then truly, the altar of brass shall be prepared for use at my will.”
2 Kings 16:16	And so Uriah, the priest, acted in accord with all that king Ahaz had instructed to him.
2 Kings 16:17	Then king Ahaz took away the engraved bases, and the basin that was upon them. And he took down the sea from the bronze oxen, which were holding it up. And he positioned it upon a layer of pavement stone.
2 Kings 16:18	Also, the canopy for the Sabbath, which he had built in the temple, and the exterior entrance of the king, he converted into the temple of the Lord, because of the king of the Assyrians.
2 Kings 16:19	Now the rest of the words of Ahaz that he did, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2 Kings 16:20	And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and he was buried with them in the city of David. And Hezekiah, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 17:1	In the twelfth year of Ahaz, the king of Judah: Hoshea, the son of Elah, reigned over Israel, in Samaria, for nine years.
2 Kings 17:2	And he did evil before the Lord, but not like the kings of Israel who had been before him.
2 Kings 17:3	Shalmaneser, the king of the Assyrians, ascended against him. And Hoshea became a servant to him, and he paid him tribute.
2 Kings 17:4	And when the king of the Assyrians discovered that Hoshea, striving to rebel, had sent messengers to Sais, to the king of Egypt, so as not to present the tribute to the king of the Assyrians, as he had been accustomed to do each year, he besieged him. And having been bound, he cast him into prison.
2 Kings 17:5	And he wandered through the entire land. And ascending to Samaria, he besieged it for three years.
2 Kings 17:6	And in the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of the Assyrians captured Samaria, and he carried away Israel to Assyria. And he stationed them in Halah and in Habor, beside the river of Gozan, in the cities of the Medes.
2 Kings 17:7	For it happened that, when the sons of Israel had sinned against the Lord, their God, who had led them away from the land of Egypt, from the hand of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, they worshipped strange gods.
2 Kings 17:8	And they walked according to the rituals of the nations that the Lord had consumed in the sight of the sons of Israel, and of the kings of Israel. For they had acted similarly.
2 Kings 17:9	And the sons of Israel offended the Lord, their God, with deeds that were not upright. And they built for themselves high places in all their cities, from the tower of the watchmen to the fortified city.
2 Kings 17:10	And they made for themselves statues and sacred groves, on every high hill and under every leafy tree.
2 Kings 17:11	And they were burning incense there, upon altars, in the manner of the nations that the Lord had removed from their face. And they did wicked deeds, provoking the Lord.
2 Kings 17:12	And they worshipped impurities, concerning which the Lord instructed them that they should not do this word.
2 Kings 17:13	And the Lord testified to them, in Israel and in Judah, through the hand of all the prophets and seers, saying: “Return from your wicked ways, and keep my precepts and ceremonies, in accord with the entire law, which I instructed to your fathers, and just as I sent to you by the hand of my servants, the prophets.”
2 Kings 17:14	But they did not listen. Instead, they hardened their necks to be like the neck of their fathers, who were not willing to obey the Lord, their God.
2 Kings 17:15	And they cast aside his ordinances, and the covenant that he formed with their fathers, and the testimonies which he testified to them. And they pursued vanities and acted vainly. And they followed the nations that were all around them, concerning the things which the Lord had commanded them not to do, and which they did.
2 Kings 17:16	And they abandoned all the precepts of the Lord, their God. And they made for themselves two molten calves and sacred groves. And they adored the entire celestial army. And they served Baal.
2 Kings 17:17	And they consecrated their sons and their daughters through fire. And they devoted themselves to divinations and soothsaying. And they delivered themselves into the doing of evil before the Lord, so that they provoked him.
2 Kings 17:18	And the Lord became vehemently angry with Israel, and he took them away from his sight. And there remained no one, except the tribe of Judah alone.
2 Kings 17:19	But even Judah did not keep the commandments of the Lord, their God. Instead, they walked in the errors of Israel, which they had wrought.
2 Kings 17:20	And the Lord cast aside all of the offspring of Israel. And he afflicted them, and he delivered them into the hand of despoilers, until he drove them away from his face,
2 Kings 17:21	even from that time when Israel was torn away from the house of David, and they appointed for themselves Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, as king. For Jeroboam separated Israel from the Lord, and he caused them to sin a great sin.
2 Kings 17:22	And the sons of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboam, which he had done. And they did not withdraw from these,
2 Kings 17:23	even when the Lord carried away Israel from his face, just as he had said by the hand of all his servants, the prophets. And Israel was carried away from their land into Assyria, even to this day.
2 Kings 17:24	Then the king of the Assyrians brought some from Babylon, and from Cuthah, and from Avva, and from Hamath, and from Sepharvaim. And he located them in the cities of Samaria, in place of the sons of Israel. And they possessed Samaria, and they lived in its cities.
2 Kings 17:25	And when they had begun to live there, they did not fear the Lord. And the Lord sent lions among them, which were killing them.
2 Kings 17:26	And this was reported to the king of the Assyrians, and it was said: “The peoples that you transferred and caused to live in the cities of Samaria, they are ignorant of the ordinances of the God of the land. And so the Lord has sent lions among them. And behold, they have killed them, because they were ignorant of the rituals of the God of the land.”
2 Kings 17:27	Then the king of the Assyrians commanded, saying: “Lead to that place one of the priests, whom you brought as a captive from there. And let him go and live with them. And let him teach them the ordinances of the God of the land.”
2 Kings 17:28	And so, when one of the priests, who had been led away captive from Samaria, had arrived, he lived in Bethel. And he taught them how they should worship the Lord.
2 Kings 17:29	And each of the nations made gods of their own, and they placed them in the shrines of the high places, which the Samaritans had made: nation after nation, in their cities in which they were living.
2 Kings 17:30	So the men of Babylon made Soccoth-benoth; and the men of Cuth made Nergal; and the men of Hamath made Ashima;
2 Kings 17:31	and the Avvites made Nibhaz and Tartak. Then those who were from Sepharvaim burned up their children with fire, for the gods of Sepharvaim: Adram-melech and Anam-melech.
2 Kings 17:32	But nevertheless, they worshipped the Lord. Then they made for themselves, from the least of the people, priests of the high places. And they placed them in the shrines of the high places.
2 Kings 17:33	And though they worshipped the Lord, they also served their own gods, according to the custom of the nations from which they had been transferred into Samaria.
2 Kings 17:34	Even to the present day, they follow the ancient customs; they do not fear the Lord, and they do not keep his ceremonies, and judgments, and law, and commandment, which the Lord had instructed to the sons of Jacob, whom he named Israel.
2 Kings 17:35	And he had struck a covenant with them, and he had commanded them, saying: “You shall not fear foreign gods, and you shall not adore them, and you shall not worship them, and you shall not sacrifice to them.
2 Kings 17:36	But the Lord, your God, who led you away from the land of Egypt, with great strength and with an outstretched arm, him shall you fear, and him shall you adore, and to him shall you sacrifice.
2 Kings 17:37	Also, the ceremonies, and judgments, and law, and commandment, which he wrote for you, you shall keep so that you do them for all days. And you shall not fear strange gods.
2 Kings 17:38	And the covenant, which he struck with you, you shall not forget; neither shall you worship strange gods.
2 Kings 17:39	But you shall fear the Lord, your God. And he will rescue you from the hand of all your enemies.”
2 Kings 17:40	Yet truly, they did not listen to this. Instead, they acted in accord with their earlier custom.
2 Kings 17:41	And such were these nations: to some extent fearing the Lord, yet nevertheless also serving their idols. As for their sons and grandsons, just as their fathers acted, so also did they act, even to the present day.
2 Kings 18:1	In the third year of Hoshea, the son of Elah, the king of Israel: Hezekiah, the son of Ahaz, reigned as king of Judah.
2 Kings 18:2	He was twenty-five years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Abi, the daughter of Zechariah.
2 Kings 18:3	And he did what was good before the Lord, in accord with all that his father David had done.
2 Kings 18:4	He destroyed the high places, and he crushed the statues, and he cut down the sacred groves. And he broke apart the bronze serpent, which Moses had made. For even until that time, the sons of Israel were burning incense to it. And he called its name Nehushtan.
2 Kings 18:5	He hoped in the Lord, the God of Israel. And after him, there was no one similar to him, among all the kings of Judah, nor even among any of those who were before him.
2 Kings 18:6	And he clung to the Lord, and he did not withdraw from his footsteps, and he carried out his commandments, which the Lord had instructed to Moses.
2 Kings 18:7	Therefore, the Lord was also with him. And he conducted himself wisely in all the things to which he went forth. Also, he rebelled against the king of the Assyrians, and he did not serve him.
2 Kings 18:8	He struck the Philistines as far as Gaza, and in all their borders, from the tower of the watchmen to the fortified city.
2 Kings 18:9	In the fourth year of king Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hoshea, the son of Elah, the king of Israel: Shalmaneser, the king of the Assyrians, ascended to Samaria, and he fought against it,
2 Kings 18:10	and he seized it. For after three years, in the sixth year of Hezekiah, that is, in the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of Israel, Samaria was captured.
2 Kings 18:11	And the king of the Assyrians took away Israel into Assyria. And he located them in Halah and in Habor, at the rivers of Gozan, in the cities of the Medes.
2 Kings 18:12	For they did not listen to the voice of the Lord, their God. Instead, they transgressed his covenant. All that Moses, the servant of the Lord, had instructed, they would neither hear, nor do.
2 Kings 18:13	In the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah, Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians, went up to all the fortified cities of Judah, and he captured them.
2 Kings 18:14	Then Hezekiah, the king of Judah, sent messengers to the king of the Assyrians at Lachish, saying: “I have offended. Withdraw from me, and all that you will impose upon me, I will bear.” And so the king of the Assyrians levied a tax upon Hezekiah, the king of Judah, of three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold.
2 Kings 18:15	And Hezekiah gave all the silver that had been found in the house of the Lord, and in the treasuries of the king.
2 Kings 18:16	At that time, Hezekiah broke apart the doors of the temple of the Lord, with the plates of gold which he had affixed to them. And he gave these to the king of the Assyrians.
2 Kings 18:17	Then the king of the Assyrians sent Tartan, and Rabsaris, and Rabshakeh, from Lachish, to king Hezekiah, with a powerful hand, to Jerusalem. And when they had ascended, they arrived in Jerusalem, and they stood beside the aqueduct of the upper pool, which is along the way of the fuller’s field.
2 Kings 18:18	And they called for the king. But there went out to them Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, the first ruler of the house, and Shebnah, the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the keeper of records.
2 Kings 18:19	And Rabshakeh said to them: “Speak to Hezekiah: Thus says the great king, the king of the Assyrians: What is this faith, in which you strive?
2 Kings 18:20	Perhaps, you have taken counsel, so that you would prepare yourself for battle. In whom do you trust, so that you would dare to rebel?
2 Kings 18:21	Do you hope in Egypt, that staff of a broken reed, which, if a man would lean upon it, breaking, it would pierce his hand? Such is Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, to all who would trust in him.
2 Kings 18:22	But if you say to me: ‘We have faith in the Lord, our God.’ Is it not he, whose high places and altars Hezekiah has taken away? And did he not instruct Judah and Jerusalem: ‘You shall adore before this altar in Jerusalem?’
2 Kings 18:23	Now therefore, cross over to my lord, the king of the Assyrians, and I will give to you two thousand horses, and we will see if you even have enough riders for them.
2 Kings 18:24	So how can you resist one prince from the least of my lord’s servants? Do you have faith in Egypt because of the chariots and horsemen?
2 Kings 18:25	Is it not by the will of the Lord that I have chosen to ascend to this place, so that I may destroy it? The Lord said to me: ‘Ascend to this land, and destroy it.’ ”
2 Kings 18:26	Then Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, and Shebnah, and Joah, said to Rabshakeh: “We beseech you, that you may speak to us, your servants, in Syriac. For we understand that language to some extent. And do not speak to us in the Jews’ language, in the hearing of the people, who are upon the wall.”
2 Kings 18:27	And Rabshakeh responded to them, saying: “Has my lord sent me to your lord and to you, so that I may speak these words, and not instead to the men who are sitting upon the wall, so that they may eat their own dung, and drink their own urine with you?”
2 Kings 18:28	And so, Rabshakeh stood up, and he exclaimed in a great voice, in the Jews’ language, and he said: “Listen to the words of the great king, the king of the Assyrians.
2 Kings 18:29	Thus says the king: Let not Hezekiah lead you astray. For he will not be able to rescue you from my hand.
2 Kings 18:30	And do not let him give you faith in the Lord, saying: ‘The Lord will rescue and free us, and this city will not be delivered into the hand of the king of the Assyrians.’
2 Kings 18:31	Do not choose to listen to Hezekiah. For thus says the king of the Assyrians: Do with me what is for your own good, and come out to me. And each one of you will eat from his own vine, and from his own fig tree. And you shall drink water from your own wells,
2 Kings 18:32	until I arrive and transfer you into a land, similar to your own land, a fruitful and fertile land of wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of olives and oil and honey. And you will live, and not die. Do not choose to listen to Hezekiah, who deceives you, saying: ‘The Lord will free us.’
2 Kings 18:33	Have any of the gods of the nations freed their land from the hand of the king of Assyria?
2 Kings 18:34	Where is the god of Hamath, and of Arpad? Where is the god of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and of Avva? Have they freed Samaria from my hand?
2 Kings 18:35	Which ones among all the gods of the lands have rescued their region from my hand, so that the Lord would be able to rescue Jerusalem from my hand?”
2 Kings 18:36	But the people were silent, and they did not respond at all to him. For indeed, they had received an instruction from the king that they should not respond to him.
2 Kings 18:37	And Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, the first ruler of the house, and Shebnah, the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the keeper of records, went to Hezekiah with their garments torn. And they reported to him the words of Rabshakeh.
2 Kings 19:1	And when king Hezekiah had heard this, he tore his garments, and he covered himself with sackcloth, and he entered the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 19:2	And he sent Eliakim, the first ruler of the house, and Shebnah, the scribe, and the elders from the priests, covered with sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz.
2 Kings 19:3	And they said to him: “Thus says Hezekiah: This day is a day of tribulation, and of rebuke, and of blasphemy. The sons are ready to be born, but the woman in labor does not have the strength.
2 Kings 19:4	Perhaps the Lord, your God, may hear all the words of Rabshakeh, whom the king of the Assyrians, his lord, sent so that he would reproach the living God, and rebuke with words, which the Lord, your God, has heard. And so, offer a prayer on behalf of the remnant that has been found.”
2 Kings 19:5	And the servants of king Hezekiah went to Isaiah.
2 Kings 19:6	And Isaiah said to them: “So shall you say to your lord. Thus says the Lord: Do not be afraid before the face of the words that you have heard, by which the servants of the king of the Assyrians have blasphemed me.
2 Kings 19:7	Behold, I will send a spirit to him, and he will hear a report, and he will return to his own land. And I will bring him down by the sword in his own land.”
2 Kings 19:8	Then Rabshakeh returned, and he found the king of the Assyrians fighting against Libnah. For he had heard that he had withdrawn from Lachish.
2 Kings 19:9	And when he had heard from Tirhakah, the king of Ethiopia, saying, “Behold, he has gone out so that he may fight against you,” and when he went forth against him, he sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying:
2 Kings 19:10	“So shall you say to Hezekiah, the king of Judah: Let not your God, in whom you trust, lead you astray. And you should not say, ‘Jerusalem will not be delivered into the hands of the king of the Assyrians.’
2 Kings 19:11	For you yourself have heard what the kings of the Assyrians have done to all the lands, the manner in which they have laid waste to them. Therefore, how would you alone be able to be freed?
2 Kings 19:12	Have the gods of the nations freed any of those whom my fathers have destroyed, such as Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the sons of Eden, who were at Telassar?
2 Kings 19:13	Where is the king of Hamath, and the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, and of Hena, and of Avva?”
2 Kings 19:14	And so, when Hezekiah had received the letter from the hand of the messengers, and had read it, he ascended to the house of the Lord, and he spread it out before the Lord.
2 Kings 19:15	And he prayed in his sight, saying: “O Lord, God of Israel, who sits upon the cherubim, you alone are God, over all the kings of the earth. You made heaven and earth.
2 Kings 19:16	Incline your ear, and listen. Open your eyes, O Lord, and see. And hear all the words of Sennacherib, who sent so that he might reproach the living God before us.
2 Kings 19:17	Truly, O Lord, the kings of the Assyrians have devastated all peoples and lands.
2 Kings 19:18	And they have cast their gods into the fire. For they were not gods, but instead were the works of men’s hands, out of wood and stone. And so they destroyed them.
2 Kings 19:19	Now therefore, O Lord our God, bring us salvation from his hand, so that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you alone are the Lord God.”
2 Kings 19:20	Then Isaiah, the son of Amoz, sent to Hezekiah, saying: “Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: I have heard what you beseeched from me, concerning Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians.
2 Kings 19:21	This is the word that the Lord has spoken about him: The virgin daughter of Zion has spurned and ridiculed you. The daughter of Jerusalem has shaken her head behind your back.
2 Kings 19:22	Whom have you reproached, and whom have you blasphemed? Against whom have you exalted your voice, and lifted up your eyes on high? Against the Holy One of Israel!
2 Kings 19:23	By the hand of your servants, you have reproach the Lord, and you have said: ‘By the multitude of my chariots I have ascended to the heights of the mountains, to the summit of Lebanon. And I have cut down its sublime cedars, and its elect spruce trees. And I have entered even to its limits. And its forest of Carmel,
2 Kings 19:24	I have cut down. And I drank foreign waters, and I dried up all the enclosed waters with the steps of my feet.’
2 Kings 19:25	But have you not heard what I have done from the beginning? From the days of antiquity, I have formed it, and now I have brought it to be. And fortified cities of fighting men will become piles of ruins.
2 Kings 19:26	And whoever may settle in these, they have trembled, with a weak hand, and they have been confounded. They have become like the hay of the field, and like weeds sprouting on the rooftops, which dry up before they reached maturity.
2 Kings 19:27	Your habitation, and your exit, and your entrance, and your way, I knew beforehand, along with your fury against me.
2 Kings 19:28	You have been maddened against me, and your arrogance has ascended to my ears. And so, I will place a ring in your nose, and a bit between your lips. And I will lead you back along the way by which you came.
2 Kings 19:29	But as for you, Hezekiah, this shall be a sign: Eat this year whatever you will find, and in the second year, whatever may spring up of itself. But in the third year, sow and reap; plant vineyards, and eat from their fruit.
2 Kings 19:30	And whatever will have been left behind, from the house of Judah, shall send a root downward, and shall bear fruit upward.
2 Kings 19:31	Indeed, a remnant shall go forth from Jerusalem, and what may be saved shall go forth from mount Zion. The zeal of the Lord of hosts shall accomplish this.
2 Kings 19:32	For this reason, thus says the Lord about the king of the Assyrians: He shall not enter into this city, nor shoot an arrow into it, nor overtake it with the shield, nor encircle it with fortifications.
2 Kings 19:33	By the way that he came, so shall he return. And he shall not enter this city, says the Lord.
2 Kings 19:34	And I will protect this city, and I will save it for my own sake, and for the sake of my servant David.”
2 Kings 19:35	And so it happened that, in the same night, an Angel of the Lord went and struck down, in the camp of the Assyrians, one hundred and eighty-five thousand. And when he had risen up, at first light, he saw all the bodies of the dead. And withdrawing, he went away.
2 Kings 19:36	And Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians, returned and dwelled in Nineveh.
2 Kings 19:37	And while he was worshipping in the temple of his god, Nisroch, his sons, Adram-melech and Sharezer, struck him with the sword. And they fled into the land of the Armenians. And Esarhaddon, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 20:1	In those days, Hezekiah was sick unto death. And the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz, came and said to him: “Thus says the Lord God: Instruct your house, for you will die, and not live.”
2 Kings 20:2	And he turned his face to the wall, and he prayed to the Lord, saying:
2 Kings 20:3	“I beg you, O Lord, I beseech you, remember how I have walked before you in truth, and with a perfect heart, and how I have done what is pleasing before you.” And then Hezekiah wept with a great weeping.
2 Kings 20:4	And before Isaiah departed from the middle part of the atrium, the word of the Lord came to him, saying:
2 Kings 20:5	“Return and tell Hezekiah, the leader of my people: Thus says the Lord, the God of your father David: I have heard your prayer, and I have seen your tears. And behold, I have healed you. On the third day, you shall ascend to the temple of the Lord.
2 Kings 20:6	And I will add fifteen years to your days. Then too, I will free you and this city from the hand of the king of the Assyrians. And I will protect this city for my own sake, and for the sake of my servant David.”
2 Kings 20:7	And Isaiah said, “Bring me a mass of figs.” And when they had brought it, and they had placed it on his sore, he was healed.
2 Kings 20:8	But Hezekiah had said to Isaiah, “What will be the sign that the Lord will heal me, and that I will ascend to the temple of the Lord on the third day?”
2 Kings 20:9	And Isaiah said to him: “This will be the sign from the Lord, that the Lord will do the word that he has spoken: Do you wish that the shadow may ascend ten lines, or that it may turn back for the same number of degrees?”
2 Kings 20:10	And Hezekiah said: “It is an easy for the shadow to increase for ten lines. And so I do not wish that this be done. Instead, let it turn back for ten degrees.”
2 Kings 20:11	And so the prophet Isaiah called upon the Lord. And he led back the shadow, along the lines by which it had already descended on the sundial of Ahaz, in reverse for ten degrees.
2 Kings 20:12	At that time, Merodach-baladan, the son of Baladan, the king of the Babylonians, sent letters and gifts to Hezekiah. For he had heard that Hezekiah had been ill.
2 Kings 20:13	Now Hezekiah rejoiced at their arrival, and so he revealed to them the house of aromatic spices, and the gold and silver, and the various pigments and ointments, and the house of his vessels, and all that he was able to have in his treasuries. There was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominions, that Hezekiah did not show to them.
2 Kings 20:14	Then the prophet Isaiah came to king Hezekiah, and said to him: “What did these men say? And from where did they come to you?” And Hezekiah said to him, “They came to me from Babylon, from a far away land.”
2 Kings 20:15	And he responded, “What did they see in your house?” And Hezekiah said: “They saw all things whatsoever that are in my house. There is nothing in my treasuries that I did not show to them.”
2 Kings 20:16	And so Isaiah said to Hezekiah: “Listen to the word of the Lord.
2 Kings 20:17	Behold, the days are coming when all that is in your house, and all that your fathers have stored up even to this day, will be carried away to Babylon. Nothing at all shall remain, says the Lord.
2 Kings 20:18	Then too, they will take from your sons, who will go forth from you, whom you will conceive. And they will be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.”
2 Kings 20:19	Hezekiah said to Isaiah: “The word of the Lord, which you have spoken, is good. Let peace and truth be in my days.”
2 Kings 20:20	Now the rest of the words of Hezekiah, and all his strength, and how he made a pool, and an aqueduct, and how he brought waters into the city, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2 Kings 20:21	And Hezekiah slept with his fathers. And Manasseh, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 21:1	Manasseh was twelve years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for fifty-five years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Hephzibah.
2 Kings 21:2	And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, in accord with the idols of the nations that the Lord destroyed before the face of the sons of Israel.
2 Kings 21:3	And he turned away. And he built up the high places that his father, Hezekiah, had destroyed. And he erected altars to Baal, and he made sacred groves, just as Ahab, the king of Israel, had done. And he adored the entire army of heaven, and he served them.
2 Kings 21:4	And he constructed altars in the house of the Lord, about which the Lord said: “In Jerusalem, I will place my name.”
2 Kings 21:5	And he constructed altars, for the entire army of heaven, within the two courts of the temple of the Lord.
2 Kings 21:6	And he led his son through fire. And he used divinations, and observed omens, and appointed soothsayers, and multiplied diviners, so that he did evil before the Lord, and provoked him.
2 Kings 21:7	Also, he set up an idol, of the sacred grove that he had made, in the temple of the Lord, about which the Lord said to David, and to his son Solomon: “In this temple, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, I will place my name forever.
2 Kings 21:8	And I will no longer cause the feet of Israel to be moved from the land that I gave to their fathers: if only they will take care to do all that I have instructed them, and the entire law that my servant Moses commanded to them.”
2 Kings 21:9	Yet truly, they did not listen. Instead, they were seduced by Manasseh, so that they did evil, more so than the nations that the Lord crushed before the face of the sons of Israel.
2 Kings 21:10	And so the Lord spoke, by the hand of his servants, the prophets, saying:
2 Kings 21:11	“Since Manasseh, the king of Judah, has committed these wicked abominations, beyond all that the Amorites before him have done, and also has caused Judah to sin by his defilements,
2 Kings 21:12	because of this, thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Behold, I will lead evils over Jerusalem and over Judah, such that, whoever will hear of these things, both his ears will ring.
2 Kings 21:13	And I will extend the measuring line of Samaria over Jerusalem, with the scale of the house of Ahab. And I will erase Jerusalem, just as writing tablets are usually erased. And after erasing, I will turn it and repeatedly drag a stylus over its surface.
2 Kings 21:14	And truly, I will send away the remnants of my inheritance, and I will deliver them into the hands of their enemies. And they will be devastated and plundered by all their adversaries.
2 Kings 21:15	For they have done evil before me, and they have persevered in provoking me, from the day when their fathers departed from Egypt, even to this day.
2 Kings 21:16	Moreover, Manasseh also has shed an exceedingly great amount of innocent blood, until he filled Jerusalem even to the mouth, aside from his sins by which he caused Judah to sin, so that they did evil before the Lord.”
2 Kings 21:17	Now the rest of the words of Manasseh, and all that he did, and his sin that he sinned, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2 Kings 21:18	And Manasseh slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzza. And Amon, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 21:19	Amon was twenty-two years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for two years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Meshullemeth, the daughter of Haruz, from Jotbah.
2 Kings 21:20	And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, just as his father, Manasseh, had done.
2 Kings 21:21	And he walked in all the ways in which his father had walked. And he served the unclean things that his father had served, and he adored them.
2 Kings 21:22	And he abandoned the Lord, the God of his fathers, and he did not walk in the way of the Lord.
2 Kings 21:23	And his servants undertook treachery against him. And they killed the king in his own house.
2 Kings 21:24	But the people of the land slew all those who had conspired against king Amon. And they appointed for themselves Josiah, his son, as king in his place.
2 Kings 21:25	But the rest of the words of Amon, which he did, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2 Kings 21:26	And they buried him in his sepulcher, in the garden of Uzza. And his son, Josiah, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 22:1	Josiah was eight years old when he had begun to reign. He reigned for thirty-one years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Jedidah, the daughter of Adaiah, from Bozkath.
2 Kings 22:2	And he did what was pleasing before the Lord, and he walked in all the ways of his father David. He did not turn aside to the right, or to the left.
2 Kings 22:3	Then, in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, the king sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah, the son of Meshullam, the scribe of the temple of the Lord, saying to him:
2 Kings 22:4	“Go to Hilkiah, the high priest, so that the money may be put together which has been brought into the temple of the Lord, which the doorkeepers of the temple have collected from the people.
2 Kings 22:5	And let it be given, by those in charge of the house of the Lord, to the workers. And let them distribute it to those who are working in the temple of the Lord in order to repair the surfaces of the temple,
2 Kings 22:6	specifically, to carpenters and masons, and to those who mend gaps, and so that wood may be purchased, and stones from the quarries, in order to repair the temple of the Lord.
2 Kings 22:7	Yet truly, let no account be given by them of the money that they receive. Instead, let them have it within their power and trust.”
2 Kings 22:8	Then Hilkiah, the high priest, said to Shaphan, the scribe, “I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord.” And Hilkiah gave the volume to Shaphan, and he read it.
2 Kings 22:9	Also, Shaphan, the scribe, went to the king, and reported to him what he had instructed. And he said: “Your servants have brought together the money which was found in the house of the Lord. And they have given it so that it would be distributed to the workers by the overseers of the works of the temple of the Lord.”
2 Kings 22:10	Also, Shaphan, the scribe, explained to the king, saying, “Hilkiah, the priest, gave the book to me.” And when Shaphan had read it before the king,
2 Kings 22:11	and the king had heard the words of the book of the law of the Lord, he tore his garments.
2 Kings 22:12	And he instructed Hilkiah, the priest, and Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, and Achbor, the son of Micaiah, and Shaphan, the scribe, and Asaiah, the servant of the king, saying:
2 Kings 22:13	“Go and consult the Lord concerning me, and the people, and all of Judah, about the words of this volume which has been found. For the great wrath of the Lord has been kindled against us because our fathers did not listen to the words of this book, so that they would do all that has been written for us.”
2 Kings 22:14	Therefore, Hilkiah, the priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asaiah, went to Huldah, the prophetess, the wife of Shallum, the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, the keeper of the vestments, who was living in Jerusalem, in the second part. And they spoke with her.
2 Kings 22:15	And she responded to them: “Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Tell the man who sent you to me:
2 Kings 22:16	Thus says the Lord: Behold, I will lead evils over this place, and over its inhabitants, all the words of the law that the king of Judah has read.
2 Kings 22:17	For they have abandoned me, and they have sacrificed to foreign gods, provoking me by all the works of their hands. And so my indignation will be kindled against this place. And it will not be extinguished.
2 Kings 22:18	But to the king of Judah, who sent you so that you would consult the Lord, so shall you say: Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: In so far as you have heard the words of the volume,
2 Kings 22:19	and your heart was terrified, and you humbled yourself before the Lord, listening to the words against this place and its inhabitants, specifically, that they would become an astonishment and a curse, and because you have torn your garments, and have wept before me: I also have heard you, says the Lord.
2 Kings 22:20	For this reason, I will gather you to your fathers, and you will be gathered to your sepulcher in peace, so that your eyes may not see all the evils that I will bring over this place.”
2 Kings 23:1	And they reported to the king what she had said. And he sent, and all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem were gathered to him.
2 Kings 23:2	And the king ascended to the temple of the Lord. And with him were all the men of Judah and all who were living in Jerusalem: the priests, and the prophets, and all the people, from the small to the great. And in the hearing of everyone, he read all the words of the book of the covenant, which was found in the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 23:3	And the king stood upon the step. And he struck a covenant before the Lord, so that they would walk after the Lord, and keep his precepts and testimonies and ceremonies, with all their heart and with all their soul, and so that they would carry out the words of this covenant, which had been written in that book. And the people agreed to the covenant.
2 Kings 23:4	And the king instructed Hilkiah, the high priest, and the priests of the second order, and the doorkeepers, so that they would cast out of the temple of the Lord all the vessels which had been made for Baal, and for the sacred grove, and for the entire army of heaven. And he burned them outside of Jerusalem, in the steep valley of Kidron. And he carried their dust into Bethel.
2 Kings 23:5	And he destroyed the soothsayers, whom the kings of Judah had appointed to sacrifice in the high places throughout the cities of Judah, and all around Jerusalem, along with those who were burning incense to Baal, and to the Sun, and to the Moon, and to the twelve signs, and to the entire army of heaven.
2 Kings 23:6	And he caused the sacred grove to be carried away from the house of the Lord, outside of Jerusalem, to the steep valley of Kidron. And he burned it there, and reduced it to dust. And he cast the dust over the graves of the common people.
2 Kings 23:7	Also, he destroyed the small places of the effeminate, which were in the house of the Lord, for which the women were weaving something like little houses in the sacred grove.
2 Kings 23:8	And he gathered together all the priests from the cities of Judah. And he defiled the high places, where the priests were sacrificing, from Geba as far as Beersheba. And he tore down the altars of the gates at the entrance to the gate of Joshua, the leader of the city, which was to the left of the gate of the city.
2 Kings 23:9	Yet truly, the priests of the high places did not ascend to the altar of the Lord in Jerusalem. For they would only eat from the unleavened bread in the midst of their brothers.
2 Kings 23:10	Also, he defiled Topheth, which is in the steep valley of the son of Hinnom, so that no one would consecrate his son or his daughter, through fire, to Molech.
2 Kings 23:11	Also, he took away the horses that the kings of Judah had given to the Sun, at the entrance to the temple of the Lord, beside the hallway of Nathan-melech, the eunuch, who was in Pharurim. And he burned the chariots of the Sun with fire.
2 Kings 23:12	Also, the altars which were upon the roof of the upper room of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made, and the altars which Manasseh had made in the two courts of the temple of the Lord, the king destroyed. And he hurried from there, and he scattered their ashes into the torrent Kidron.
2 Kings 23:13	Also, the high places which were in Jerusalem, to the right side of the Mount of Offense, which Solomon, the king of Israel, had built to Ashtoreth, the idol of the Sidonians, and to Chemosh, the offense of Moab, and to Milcom, the abomination of the sons of Ammon, the king defiled.
2 Kings 23:14	And he crushed the statues, and he cut down the sacred groves. And he filled their places with the bones of the dead.
2 Kings 23:15	Then too, the altar which was in Bethel, and the high place which Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin, had made: both that altar and the high place he tore down, and burned, and reduced to dust. And then he also set fire to the sacred grove.
2 Kings 23:16	And in that place Josiah, turning, saw the sepulchers which were on the mount. And he sent and took the bones from the sepulchers. And he burned them upon the altar, and he defiled it in accord with the word of the Lord, which was spoken by the man of God, who had predicted these events.
2 Kings 23:17	And he said, “What is that monument that I see?” And the citizens of that city responded to him: “It is the sepulcher of the man of God, who came from Judah, and who predicted these events, which you have carried out concerning the altar of Bethel.”
2 Kings 23:18	And he said: “Permit him. Let no one move his bones.” And his bones have remained untouched, with the bones of the prophet who had arrived from Samaria.
2 Kings 23:19	Then too, all the shines of the high places, which were in the cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel had made to provoke the Lord, Josiah took away. And he acted toward them according to all the works that he had done in Bethel.
2 Kings 23:20	And all the priests of the high places, who were in that place, he killed upon the altars. And he burned the bones of the men upon them. And he returned to Jerusalem.
2 Kings 23:21	And he instructed all the people, saying: “Keep the Passover to the Lord your God, according to what has been written in the book of this covenant.”
2 Kings 23:22	Now no similar Passover was kept, from the days of the judges, who judged Israel, and from all the days of the kings of Israel and the kings of Judah,
2 Kings 23:23	as this Passover, which was kept to the Lord in Jerusalem, in the eighteenth year of king Josiah.
2 Kings 23:24	Then too, Josiah took away those who divined by spirits, and the soothsayers, and the images of the idols, and the defilements, and the abominations, which had been in the land of Judah and Jerusalem, so that he might establish the words of the law, which were written in the book, which Hilkiah, the priest, found in the temple of the Lord.
2 Kings 23:25	There was no king before him similar to him, who returned to the Lord with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his strength, in accord with the entire law of Moses. And after him, there rose up no one similar to him.
2 Kings 23:26	Yet truly, the Lord did not turn away from the wrath of his great fury, his fury which was enraged against Judah because of the provocations by which Manasseh had provoked him.
2 Kings 23:27	And so the Lord said: “And now I will remove Judah from my face, just as I removed Israel. And I will cast aside this city, Jerusalem, which I have chosen, and the house, about which I said: My name shall be there.”
2 Kings 23:28	Now the rest of the words of Josiah, and all that he did, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah?
2 Kings 23:29	During his days, Pharaoh Neco, the king of Egypt, ascended against the king of the Assyrians to the river Euphrates. And king Josiah went out to meet him. And when he had seen him, he was killed at Megiddo.
2 Kings 23:30	And his servants carried him dead from Megiddo. And they took him to Jerusalem, and they buried him in his own sepulcher. And the people of the land took Jehoahaz, the son of Josiah. And they anointed him, and made him king in place of his father.
2 Kings 23:31	Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for three months in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah, from Libnah.
2 Kings 23:32	And he did evil before the Lord, according to all that his fathers had done.
2 Kings 23:33	And Pharaoh Neco bound him at Riblah, which is in the land of Hamath, so that he would not reign in Jerusalem. And he imposed a penalty on the land: one hundred talents of silver, and one talent of gold.
2 Kings 23:34	And Pharaoh Neco appointed Eliakim, the son of Josiah, as king in place of Josiah his father. And he changed his name to Jehoiakim. Then he took Jehoahaz away, and he brought him into Egypt, and there he died.
2 Kings 23:35	Now Jehoiakim gave silver and gold to Pharaoh, when he had taxed the land, according to each one who would contribute by the command of Pharaoh. And he exacted both silver and gold from the people of the land, from each one according to his ability, so that he would give to Pharaoh Neco.
2 Kings 23:36	Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for eleven years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Zebidah, the daughter of Pedaiah, from Rumah.
2 Kings 23:37	And he did evil before the Lord, in accord with all that his fathers had done.
2 Kings 24:1	During his days, Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, ascended, and Jehoiakim became his servant for three years. And again he rebelled against him.
2 Kings 24:2	And the Lord sent to him the robbers of the Chaldeans, and the robbers of Syria, and the robbers of Moab, and the robbers of the sons of Ammon. And he sent them into Judah, so that they might destroy it, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he had spoken through his servants, the prophets.
2 Kings 24:3	Then this occurred, by the word of the Lord against Judah, that he took him away from before himself because of all the sins of Manasseh which he did,
2 Kings 24:4	and because of the innocent blood which he shed, and because he filled Jerusalem with the slaughter of the innocent. And for this reason, the Lord was not willing to be appeased.
2 Kings 24:5	But the rest of the words of Jehoiakim, and all that he did, have these not been written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah? And Jehoiakim slept with his fathers.
2 Kings 24:6	And Jehoiachin, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Kings 24:7	And the king of Egypt no longer continued to go out from his own land. For the king of Babylon had taken all that had belonged to the king of Egypt, from the river of Egypt as far as the river Euphrates.
2 Kings 24:8	Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for three months in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Nehushta, the daughter of Elnathan, from Jerusalem.
2 Kings 24:9	And he did evil before the Lord, in accord with all that his father had done.
2 Kings 24:10	At that time, the servants of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, ascended against Jerusalem. And the city was encircled with fortifications.
2 Kings 24:11	And Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, went to the city, with his servants, so that he might fight against it.
2 Kings 24:12	And Jehoiachin, the king of Judah, went out to the king of Babylon, he, and his mother, and his servants, and his leaders, and his eunuchs. And the king of Babylon received him, in the eighth year of his reign.
2 Kings 24:13	And he took from there all the treasures of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of the house of the king. And he cut up all the gold vessels which Solomon, the king of Israel, had made for the temple of the Lord, in accord with the word of the Lord.
2 Kings 24:14	And he carried away all of Jerusalem, and all the leaders, and all the strong men of the army, ten thousand, into captivity, with every artisan and craftsman. And no one was left behind, except the poor among the people of the land.
2 Kings 24:15	Also, he carried away Jehoiachin into Babylon, and the mother of the king, and the wives of the king, and his eunuchs. And he led into captivity the judges of the land, from Jerusalem to Babylon,
2 Kings 24:16	and all the robust men, seven thousand, and the artisans and craftsman, one thousand: all who were strong men and fit for war. And the king of Babylon led them away as captives, into Babylon.
2 Kings 24:17	And he appointed Mattaniah, his uncle, in his place. And he imposed the name Zedekiah upon him.
2 Kings 24:18	Zedekiah held twenty-one years of life when he had begun to reign. And he reigned for eleven years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah, from Libnah.
2 Kings 24:19	And he did evil before the Lord, in accord with all that Jehoiakim had done.
2 Kings 24:20	For the Lord was angry against Jerusalem and against Judah, until he cast them away from his face. And so Zedekiah withdrew from the king of Babylon.
2 Kings 25:1	Then it happened that, in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, he and his entire army, arrived against Jerusalem. And they encircled it, and they constructed fortifications all around it.
2 Kings 25:2	And the city was enclosed and besieged, even until the eleventh year of king Zedekiah,
2 Kings 25:3	on the ninth day of the month. And a famine prevailed in the city; neither was there bread for the people of the land.
2 Kings 25:4	And the city was breached. And all the men of war fled in the night along the way of the gate which is between the double wall at the garden of the king. Now the Chaldeans were besieging the city on all sides. And so Zedekiah fled along the way which leads to the plains of the wilderness.
2 Kings 25:5	And the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king, and they overtook him in the plains of Jericho. And all the warriors who were with him were dispersed, and they abandoned him.
2 Kings 25:6	Therefore, having apprehended him, they led the king to the king of Babylon at Riblah. And he was speaking with him in judgment.
2 Kings 25:7	Then he killed the sons of Zedekiah before him, and he dug out his eyes, and he bound him with chains, and he led him away to Babylon.
2 Kings 25:8	In the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month, the same is the nineteenth year of the king of Babylon, Nebuzaradan, the leader of the army, a servant of the king of Babylon, went into Jerusalem.
2 Kings 25:9	And he set fire to the house of the Lord, and to the house of the king. And the houses of Jerusalem, and every great house, he burned with fire.
2 Kings 25:10	And the entire army of the Chaldeans, which was with the leader of the military, tore down the walls of Jerusalem all around.
2 Kings 25:11	Then Nebuzaradan, the leader of the military, carried away the rest of the people, who had remained in the city, and the fugitives, who had fled over to the king of Babylon, and the remnant of the common people.
2 Kings 25:12	But he left behind some vinedressers and farmers from the poor of the land.
2 Kings 25:13	Now the pillars of brass which were in the temple of the Lord, and the bases, and the sea of brass, which was in the house of the Lord, the Chaldeans broke apart. And they took all the brass to Babylon.
2 Kings 25:14	Also, they took away the cooking pots of brass, and the scoops, and the forks, and the cups, and the little mortars, and all the articles of brass with which they were ministering.
2 Kings 25:15	And the leader of the military even took away the censers and the bowls, whatever was of gold for the gold, and whatever was of silver for the silver,
2 Kings 25:16	and also the two pillars, the one sea, and the bases which Solomon had made for the temple of the Lord. The brass of all these items was beyond measure.
2 Kings 25:17	One pillar had eighteen cubits in height. And the head of brass upon it was three cubits in height. And the network and pomegranates upon the head of the pillar were all of brass. And the second pillar had a similar adornment.
2 Kings 25:18	Also, the leader of the military took away Seraiah, the chief priest, and Zephaniah, the second priest, and three doorkeepers,
2 Kings 25:19	and from the city, one eunuch, who was in charge of the men of war, and five men out of those who had stood before the king, whom he found in the city, and Sopher, the leader of the army who trained the young soldiers from the people of the land, and sixty men from the common people, who had been found in the city.
2 Kings 25:20	Taking them, Nebuzaradan, the leader of the military, led them to the king of Babylon at Riblah.
2 Kings 25:21	And the king of Babylon struck them and killed them at Riblah, in the land of Hamath. And Judah was taken away from his land.
2 Kings 25:22	But over the people who had remained in the land of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, had permitted, he appointed as ruler Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan.
2 Kings 25:23	And when all the commanders of the military had heard this, they and the men who were with them, specifically, that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah, they went to Gedaliah at Mizpah: Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan, the son of Kareah, and Seraiah, the son of Tanhumeth, the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah, the son of a Maacathite, they and their companions.
2 Kings 25:24	And Gedaliah swore to them and to their companions, saying: “Do not be afraid to serve the Chaldeans. Remain in the land, and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you.”
2 Kings 25:25	But it happened that, in the seventh month, Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of royal offspring, and ten men with him, went and struck Gedaliah, who then died, along with the Jews and the Chaldeans who were with him at Mizpah.
2 Kings 25:26	And all the people, from small to great, and the leaders of the military, rising up, went away to Egypt, fearing the Chaldeans.
2 Kings 25:27	Truly, it happened that, in the thirty-seventh year of the transmigration of Jehoiachin, the king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, Evilmerodach, the king of Babylon, in the year when he had begun to reign, lifted up the head of Jehoiachin, the king of Judah, from prison.
2 Kings 25:28	And he spoke kindly to him. And he set his throne above the throne of the kings who were with him at Babylon.
2 Kings 25:29	And he changed his garments that he had worn in prison. And he ate bread before him always, during all the days of his life.
2 Kings 25:30	Also, he appointed to him an allowance without ceasing, which also was given to him by the king, for each day, during all the days of his life.
1 Chronicles 1:1	Adam, Seth, Enos,
1 Chronicles 1:2	Cainan, Mahalalel, Jared,
1 Chronicles 1:3	Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech,
1 Chronicles 1:4	Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
1 Chronicles 1:5	The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, Tubal, Meshech, Tiras.
1 Chronicles 1:6	And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
1 Chronicles 1:7	And the sons of Javan: Elishah and Tarshish, Kittim and Rodanim.
1 Chronicles 1:8	The sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan.
1 Chronicles 1:9	And the sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabteca. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dadan.
1 Chronicles 1:10	Then Cush conceived Nimrod, and he began to be powerful upon the earth.
1 Chronicles 1:11	Truly, Mizraim conceived Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
1 Chronicles 1:12	as well as Pathrusim and Casluhim: from these the Philistines and the Caphtorim went forth.
1 Chronicles 1:13	Truly, Canaan conceived Sidon, his firstborn, as well as the Hittite,
1 Chronicles 1:14	and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
1 Chronicles 1:15	and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
1 Chronicles 1:16	and also the Arvadian, and the Samarite, and the Hamathite.
1 Chronicles 1:17	The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech.
1 Chronicles 1:18	Then Arphaxad conceived Shelah, who also himself conceived Eber.
1 Chronicles 1:19	And to Eber were born two sons. The name of one was Peleg, because in his days the earth was divided. And the name of his brother was Joktan.
1 Chronicles 1:20	Then Joktan conceived Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
1 Chronicles 1:21	as well as Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
1 Chronicles 1:22	and then Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba, indeed
1 Chronicles 1:23	also Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these are the sons of Joktan.
1 Chronicles 1:24	Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah,
1 Chronicles 1:25	Eber, Peleg, Reu,
1 Chronicles 1:26	Serug, Nahor, Terah,
1 Chronicles 1:27	Abram, the same is Abraham.
1 Chronicles 1:28	And the sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael.
1 Chronicles 1:29	And these are their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
1 Chronicles 1:30	and Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,
1 Chronicles 1:31	Jetur, Naphish, Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.
1 Chronicles 1:32	And the sons of Keturah, the concubine of Abraham, whom she conceived: Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan: Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.
1 Chronicles 1:33	And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these are the sons of Keturah.
1 Chronicles 1:34	Now Abraham conceived Isaac, whose sons were Esau and Israel.
1 Chronicles 1:35	The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah.
1 Chronicles 1:36	The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, Kenez, and by Timna, Amalek.
1 Chronicles 1:37	The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, Mizzah.
1 Chronicles 1:38	The sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, Dishan.
1 Chronicles 1:39	The sons of Lotan: Hori, Heman. Now the sister of Lotan was Timna.
1 Chronicles 1:40	The sons of Shobal: Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. The sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. The sons of Anah: Dishon.
1 Chronicles 1:41	The sons of Dishon: Hamran, and Esheban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
1 Chronicles 1:42	The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
1 Chronicles 1:43	Now these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom, before there was a king over the sons of Israel: Bela, the son of Beor; and the name of his city was Dinhabah.
1 Chronicles 1:44	Then Bela died, and Jobab, the son of Zerah, from Bozrah, reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 1:45	And when Jobab also had died, Husham, from the land of the Temanites, reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 1:46	Then Husham also passed away, and Hadad, the son of Bedad, reigned in his place. And he struck the Midianites in the land of Moab. The name of his city was Avith.
1 Chronicles 1:47	And when Hadad also had died, Samlah from Masrekah reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 1:48	Then Samlah also died, and Shaul from Rehoboth, which is situated beside a river, reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 1:49	Shaul also having died, Baal-hanan, the son of Achbor, reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 1:50	Then he too died, and Hadar reigned in his place. And the name of his city was Pau. And his wife was called Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
1 Chronicles 1:51	And Hadar having died, there began to be commanders in Edom in place of kings: commander Thamna, commander Alvah, commander Jetheth,
1 Chronicles 1:52	commander Oholibamah, commander Elah, commander Pinon,
1 Chronicles 1:53	commander Kanez, commander Teman, commander Mibzar,
1 Chronicles 1:54	commander Magdiel, commander Iram. These are the commanders of Edom.
1 Chronicles 2:1	And the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun,
1 Chronicles 2:2	Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
1 Chronicles 2:3	The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah. These three were born to him from the daughter of Shua, the Canaanite. But Er, the firstborn of Judah, was evil in the sight of the Lord, and so he killed him.
1 Chronicles 2:4	Now Tamar, his daughter-in-law, bore to him Perez and Zerah. Therefore, all the sons of Judah were five.
1 Chronicles 2:5	And the sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul.
1 Chronicles 2:6	Also, the sons of Zerah: Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, as well as Calcol and Dara, five altogether.
1 Chronicles 2:7	The sons of Carmi: Achar, who disturbed Israel and sinned by the theft of what was anathema.
1 Chronicles 2:8	The sons of Ethan: Azariah.
1 Chronicles 2:9	And the sons of Hezron who were born to him: Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai.
1 Chronicles 2:10	Then Ram conceived Amminadab. And Amminadab conceived Nahshon, a leader of the sons of Judah.
1 Chronicles 2:11	Also, Nahshon conceived Salma, from whom Boaz rose up.
1 Chronicles 2:12	Truly, Boaz conceived Obed, who also himself conceived Jesse.
1 Chronicles 2:13	Now Jesse conceived the firstborn Eliab, the second Abinadab, the third Shammah,
1 Chronicles 2:14	the fourth Nethanel, the fifth Raddai,
1 Chronicles 2:15	the sixth Ozem, the seventh David.
1 Chronicles 2:16	Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three.
1 Chronicles 2:17	And Abigail conceived Amasa, whose father was Jether, the Ishmaelite.
1 Chronicles 2:18	Truly, Caleb, the son of Hezron, took a wife named Azubah, of whom he conceived Jerioth. And her sons were Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon.
1 Chronicles 2:19	And when Azubah had died, Caleb took as wife Ephratha, who bore to him Hur.
1 Chronicles 2:20	Now Hur conceived Uri. And Uri conceived Bezalel.
1 Chronicles 2:21	And afterwards, Hezron entered to the daughter of Machir, father of Gilead. And he took her when he was sixty years old. And she bore to him Segub.
1 Chronicles 2:22	And then Segub conceived Jair, and he possessed twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 2:23	And he seized Geshur and Aram, towns of Jair, and Kenath and its villages, sixty cities. All these were sons of Machir, father of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 2:24	Then, when Hezron had died, Caleb entered to Ephratha. Also, Hezron had as wife Abia, who bore to him Ashhur, the father of Tekoa.
1 Chronicles 2:25	Now sons were born to Jerahmeel, the firstborn of Hezron: Ram, his firstborn, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, and Ahijah.
1 Chronicles 2:26	Jerahmeel also married another wife, named Atarah, who was the mother of Onam.
1 Chronicles 2:27	Then too, the sons of Ram, the firstborn of Jerahmeel, were Maaz, Jamin, and Eker.
1 Chronicles 2:28	And Onam had sons: Shammai and Jada. And the sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur.
1 Chronicles 2:29	Truly, the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail, who bore to him Ahban and Molid.
1 Chronicles 2:30	Now the sons of Nadab were Seled and Appaim. And Seled died without children.
1 Chronicles 2:31	Truly, the son of Appaim was Ishi. And Ishi conceived Sheshan. Then Sheshan conceived Ahlai.
1 Chronicles 2:32	But the sons of Jada, the brother of Shammai, were Jether and Jonathan. Then Jether also died without children.
1 Chronicles 2:33	And Jonathan conceived Peleth and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel.
1 Chronicles 2:34	Now Sheshan did not have sons, but only daughters, and an Egyptian servant named Jarha.
1 Chronicles 2:35	And so he gave to him his daughter as wife, who bore to him Attai.
1 Chronicles 2:36	Then Attai conceived Nathan, and Nathan conceived Zabad.
1 Chronicles 2:37	Also, Zabad conceived Ephlal, and Ephlal conceived Obed.
1 Chronicles 2:38	Obed conceived Jehu; Jehu conceived Azariah.
1 Chronicles 2:39	Azariah conceived Helez, and Helez conceived Eleasah.
1 Chronicles 2:40	Eleasah conceived Sismai; Sismai conceived Shallum.
1 Chronicles 2:41	Shallum conceived Jekamiah; then Jekamiah conceived Elishama.
1 Chronicles 2:42	And the sons of Caleb, the brother of Jerahmeel, were Mesha, his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph, and the sons of Mesha, the father of Hebron.
1 Chronicles 2:43	Now the sons of Hebron were Korah, and Tapuah, and Rekem, and Shema.
1 Chronicles 2:44	Then Shema conceived Raham, the father of Jorkeam. And Rekem conceived Shammai.
1 Chronicles 2:45	The son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Bethzur.
1 Chronicles 2:46	Now Ephah, the concubine of Caleb, bore Haran, and Moza, and Gazez. And Haran conceived Gazez.
1 Chronicles 2:47	And the sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jotham, and Geshan, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph.
1 Chronicles 2:48	And Maacah, the concubine of Caleb, bore Sheber and Tirhanah.
1 Chronicles 2:49	Then Shaaph, the father of Madmannah, conceived Sheva, the father of Machbenah, and the father of Gibea. Truly, the daughter of Caleb was Achsah.
1 Chronicles 2:50	These were the sons of Caleb, the son of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratha: Shobal, the father of Kiriath-jearim;
1 Chronicles 2:51	Salma, the father of Bethlehem; Hareph, the father of Bethgader.
1 Chronicles 2:52	Now there were sons for Shobal, the father of Kiriath-jearim, who saw half the places of rest.
1 Chronicles 2:53	And from the kindred of Kiriath-jearim: the Ithrites, and the Puthites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites. From these, the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites went forth.
1 Chronicles 2:54	The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, and the Netophathites, the crowns of the house of Joab, and half the places of rest of the Zorathites,
1 Chronicles 2:55	as well as the families of the scribes living in Jabesh, those singing and making music, and those dwelling in tents. These are the Kenites, who went forth from Calor, the father of the house of Rechab.
1 Chronicles 3:1	Truly, David had these sons, who were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelite; the second Daniel, from Abigail the Carmelite;
1 Chronicles 3:2	the third Absalom, the son of Maacah, daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; the fourth Adonijah, the son of Haggith;
1 Chronicles 3:3	the fifth Shephatiah, of Abital; the sixth Ithream, from his wife Eglah.
1 Chronicles 3:4	Therefore, six were born to him in Hebron, where he reigned for seven years and six months. Then he reigned for thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 3:5	Now in Jerusalem, sons were born to him: Shammua, and Sobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, these four from Bathsheba, the daughter of Ammiel;
1 Chronicles 3:6	also Ibhar and Elishama,
1 Chronicles 3:7	and Eliphelet, and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
1 Chronicles 3:8	indeed also Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.
1 Chronicles 3:9	All these were sons of David, aside from the sons of the concubines. And they had a sister, Tamar.
1 Chronicles 3:10	Now the son of Solomon was Rehoboam, from whom Abijah conceived a son, Asa. And from him, there was born Jehoshaphat,
1 Chronicles 3:11	the father of Jehoram. And Jehoram conceived Ahaziah, from whom there was born Jehoash.
1 Chronicles 3:12	And his son, Amaziah, conceived Azariah. Then Jotham, the son of Azariah,
1 Chronicles 3:13	conceived Ahaz, the father of Hezekiah, from whom was born Manasseh.
1 Chronicles 3:14	Then too, Manasseh conceived Amon, the father of Josiah.
1 Chronicles 3:15	Now the sons of Josiah were these: the firstborn Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.
1 Chronicles 3:16	From Jehoiakim was born Jeconiah and Zedekiah.
1 Chronicles 3:17	The sons of Jeconiah the captive were: Shealtiel,
1 Chronicles 3:18	Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, and Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
1 Chronicles 3:19	From Pedaiah, there rose up Zerubbabel and Shimei. Zerubbabel conceived Meshullam, Hananiah, and their sister Shelomith,
1 Chronicles 3:20	as well as Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, Jushab-hesed, five.
1 Chronicles 3:21	Now the son of Hananiah was Pelatiah, the father of Jeshaiah, whose son was Rephaiah. And his son was Arnan, from whom was born Obadiah, whose son was Shecaniah.
1 Chronicles 3:22	The son of Shecaniah was Shemaiah, whose sons were these: Hattush, and Igal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six in number.
1 Chronicles 3:23	The sons of Neariah: Elioenai, and Hizkiaj, and Azrikam, three.
1 Chronicles 3:24	The sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Delaiah, and Anani, seven.
1 Chronicles 4:1	The sons of Judah: Perez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.
1 Chronicles 4:2	Truly, Reaiah, the son of Shobal, conceived Jahath; from him were born Ahumai and Lahad. These are the kindred of the Zorathites.
1 Chronicles 4:3	And this is the stock of Etam: Jezreel, and Ishma, and Idbash. And the name of their sister was Hazzelelponi.
1 Chronicles 4:4	Now Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer was the father of Hushah. These are the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratha, the father of Bethlehem.
1 Chronicles 4:5	Truly, for Ashhur, the father of Tekoa, there were two wives: Helah and Naarah.
1 Chronicles 4:6	And Naarah bore to him: Ahuzzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari. These are the sons of Naarah.
1 Chronicles 4:7	And the sons of Helah were Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan.
1 Chronicles 4:8	Now Koz conceived Anub, and Zobebah, and the kindred of Aharhel, the son of Harum.
1 Chronicles 4:9	But Jabez was renown, more so than his brothers, and his mother called his name Jabez, saying, “For I bore him in sorrow.”
1 Chronicles 4:10	Truly, Jabez called upon the God of Israel, saying, “If only, when blessing, you will bless me, and will broaden my borders, and your hand will be with me, and you will cause me not to be oppressed by evil.” And God granted to him the things for which he prayed.
1 Chronicles 4:11	Now Chelub, the brother of Shuhah, conceived Mehir, who was the father of Eshton.
1 Chronicles 4:12	Then Eshton conceived Bethrapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah, the father of the city of Nahash. These are the men of Recah.
1 Chronicles 4:13	Now the sons of Kenaz were Othniel and Seraiah. And the sons of Othniel were Hathath and Meonothai.
1 Chronicles 4:14	Meonothai conceived Ophrah, but Seraiah conceived Joab, the father of the Valley of Artisans. For indeed, there were artisans there.
1 Chronicles 4:15	Truly, the sons of Chelub, the son of Jephunneh, were Iru, and Elah, and Naam. And the sons of Elah: Kenaz.
1 Chronicles 4:16	Also, the sons of Jehallelel: Ziph and Ziphah, Tiria and Asarel.
1 Chronicles 4:17	And the sons of Ezrah: Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and Jalon; and he conceived Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah, the father of Eshtemoa.
1 Chronicles 4:18	And then his wife, Judaia, bore Jered, the father of Gedor, and Heber, the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel, the father of Zanoah. Now there were sons of Bithiah, the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered married,
1 Chronicles 4:19	and sons of his wife Hodiah, the sister of Naham, the father of Keilah the Garmite, and of Eshtemoa, who was from Maacathi.
1 Chronicles 4:20	And the sons of Shimon: Amnon, and Rinnah, son of Hanan, and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi: Zoheth and Benzoheth.
1 Chronicles 4:21	The sons of Shelah, the son of Judah: Er, the father of Lecah, and Laadah, the father of Mareshah, and the kindred of the house of the workers of fine linen in the house of the oath,
1 Chronicles 4:22	and he who caused the sun to stand still, and the men of Lying, and Secure, and Burning, who were leaders in Moab, and who returned into Lehem. Now these words are ancient.
1 Chronicles 4:23	These are the potters living in the Plantations and in the Hedges, with a king in his works, and they were dwelling there.
1 Chronicles 4:24	The sons of Simeon: Nemuel and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul;
1 Chronicles 4:25	Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.
1 Chronicles 4:26	The sons of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son.
1 Chronicles 4:27	The sons of Shimei were sixteen, and there were six daughters. But his brothers did not have many sons, and the entire kindred was not equal to the sum of the sons of Judah.
1 Chronicles 4:28	Now they lived in Beersheba, and Moladah, and Hazarshual,
1 Chronicles 4:29	and in Bilhah, and in Ezem, and in Tolad,
1 Chronicles 4:30	and in Bethuel, and in Hormah, and in Ziklag,
1 Chronicles 4:31	and in Beth-marcaboth, and in Hazarsusim, and in Bethbiri, and in Shaaraim. These were their cities until king David.
1 Chronicles 4:32	And their towns were Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, five cities,
1 Chronicles 4:33	with all their villages, on every side of these cities, as far as Baal. This is their habitation and the distribution of the settlements.
1 Chronicles 4:34	And there were Meshobab and Jamlech, and Joshah, the son of Amaziah,
1 Chronicles 4:35	and Joel, and Jehu, the son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel,
1 Chronicles 4:36	and Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah,
1 Chronicles 4:37	as well as Ziza, the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah.
1 Chronicles 4:38	These were the names of the leaders in their kindred. And they were multiplied greatly within the houses of their marriages.
1 Chronicles 4:39	And they set out, so that they might enter into Gedor, as far as the eastern valley, and so that they might seek pastures for their flocks.
1 Chronicles 4:40	And they found fat and very good pastures, and a very wide and quiet and fruitful land, in which some from the stock of Ham had lived before.
1 Chronicles 4:41	So then, those whose names have been written above, went forth in the days of Hezekiah, the king of Judah. And they struck down the inhabitants who had been found there with their dwellings. And they wiped them out, even to the present day. And they lived in place of them, because they found very fat pastures there.
1 Chronicles 4:42	Also, some of the sons of Simeon, five hundred men, went away to mount Seir, having as leaders Pelatiah and Neariah and Rephaiah and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.
1 Chronicles 4:43	And they struck down the remnant of the Amalekites, those who had been able to escape, and they lived there in place of them, even to this day.
1 Chronicles 5:1	Also, there were the sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel. For indeed, he was his firstborn, but when he had violated the bed of his father, his right as firstborn was given to the sons of Joseph, the son of Israel, and he was not reputed as firstborn.
1 Chronicles 5:2	Moreover, Judah, who was strongest among his brothers, from his stock leaders sprung up, but the right of firstborn was reputed to Joseph.
1 Chronicles 5:3	So then, the sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel, were Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi.
1 Chronicles 5:4	The sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,
1 Chronicles 5:5	Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son,
1 Chronicles 5:6	Beerah his son, whom Tilgath-pilneser, the king of the Assyrians, led away captive, and he was a leader in the tribe of Reuben.
1 Chronicles 5:7	Now his brothers and all his kindred, when they were being numbered according to their families, had as leaders Jeiel and Zechariah.
1 Chronicles 5:8	Now Bela, the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, lived in Aroer, as far as Nebo and Baalmeon.
1 Chronicles 5:9	And he lived toward the eastern region, as far as the entrance to the wilderness and the river Euphrates. For indeed, they possessed a great number of cattle in the land of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 5:10	Then, in the days of Saul, they battled against the Hagarites and put them to death. And they lived in place of them, in their dwellings, throughout the entire region that looks to the east of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 5:11	Truly, the sons of Gad lived in the opposite region from them, in the land of Bashan, as far as Salecah:
1 Chronicles 5:12	Joel the head, and Shapham the second, then Janai and Shaphat, in Bashan.
1 Chronicles 5:13	Truly, their brothers, according to the houses of their kindred, were: Michael, and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jacan, and Zia, and Eber, seven.
1 Chronicles 5:14	These were the sons of Abihail, the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz,
1 Chronicles 5:15	along with their brothers, the sons of Abdiel, the son of Guni, the leader of the house, in their families,
1 Chronicles 5:16	And they lived in Gilead, and in Bashan and its towns, and in all the suburbs of Sharon, as far as the borders.
1 Chronicles 5:17	All these were numbered in the days of Jotham, the king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam, the king of Israel:
1 Chronicles 5:18	the sons of Reuben, and of Gad, and the one half tribe of Manasseh, men of war, carrying shields and swords, and bending the bow, and trained for battle, forty-four thousand and seven hundred sixty, advancing to the fight.
1 Chronicles 5:19	They struggled against the Hagarites, yet truly the Jetureans, and Naphish, and Nodab offered assistance to them.
1 Chronicles 5:20	And the Hagarites were delivered into their hands, and all who were with them. For they called upon God while they did battle. And he heeded them, because they had trusted in him.
1 Chronicles 5:21	And they seized all that they possessed, of camels fifty thousand, and of sheep two hundred fifty thousand, and of donkeys two thousand, and of men one hundred thousand lives.
1 Chronicles 5:22	And many fell down wounded. For it was a war of the Lord. And they lived in place of them, until the transmigration.
1 Chronicles 5:23	Also, the sons of the one half tribe of Manasseh possessed the land, from the parts of Bashan as far as Baal, Hermon, and Sanir, and Mount Hermon. For certainly, their number was immense.
1 Chronicles 5:24	And these were leaders of the house of their kindred: Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, very valiant and powerful men, and renown leaders in their families.
1 Chronicles 5:25	But they abandoned the God of their fathers, and they fornicated after the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God took away before them.
1 Chronicles 5:26	And so the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul, the king of the Assyrians, and the spirit of Tilgath-pilneser, the king of Assur. And he took away Reuben, and Gad, and the one half tribe of Manasseh. And he led them to Halah, and to Habor, and to Hara, and to the river of Gozan, even to this day.
1 Chronicles 6:1	The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.
1 Chronicles 6:2	The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.
1 Chronicles 6:3	The sons of Amram: Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. The sons of Aaron: Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
1 Chronicles 6:4	Eleazar conceived Phinehas, and Phinehas conceived Abishua.
1 Chronicles 6:5	Truly, Abishua conceived Bukki, and Bukki conceived Uzzi.
1 Chronicles 6:6	Uzzi conceived Zerahiah, and Zerahiah conceived Meraioth.
1 Chronicles 6:7	Then Meraioth conceived Amariah, and Amariah conceived Ahitub.
1 Chronicles 6:8	Ahitub conceived Zadok, and Zadok conceived Ahimaaz.
1 Chronicles 6:9	Ahimaaz conceived Azariah; Azariah conceived Johanan.
1 Chronicles 6:10	Johanan conceived Azariah. He is the one who executed the priestly office in the house that Solomon built in Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 6:11	Now Azariah conceived Amariah, and Amariah conceived Ahitub.
1 Chronicles 6:12	Ahitub conceived Zadok, and Zadok conceived Shallum.
1 Chronicles 6:13	Shallum conceived Hilkiah, and Hilkiah conceived Azariah.
1 Chronicles 6:14	Azariah conceived Seraiah, and Seraiah conceived Jehozadak.
1 Chronicles 6:15	Now Jehozadak departed, when the Lord took away Judah and Jerusalem, by the hands of Nebuchadnezzar.
1 Chronicles 6:16	So the sons of Levi were Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.
1 Chronicles 6:17	And these are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei.
1 Chronicles 6:18	The sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.
1 Chronicles 6:19	The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. And so these are the kindred of Levi, according to their families.
1 Chronicles 6:20	Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
1 Chronicles 6:21	Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son.
1 Chronicles 6:22	The sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
1 Chronicles 6:23	Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son,
1 Chronicles 6:24	Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, Shaul his son.
1 Chronicles 6:25	The sons of Elkanah: Amasai and Ahimoth
1 Chronicles 6:26	and Elkanah. The sons of Elkanah: Zophai his son, Nahath his son,
1 Chronicles 6:27	Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.
1 Chronicles 6:28	The sons of Samuel: Vasseni the firstborn, and Abijah.
1 Chronicles 6:29	Now the sons of Merari were: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son,
1 Chronicles 6:30	Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.
1 Chronicles 6:31	These are the ones whom David appointed over the singing men in the house of the Lord, in the place where the ark was located.
1 Chronicles 6:32	And they ministered before the tabernacle of the testimony with singing, until Solomon built the house of the Lord in Jerusalem. And they would stand according to their order in the ministry.
1 Chronicles 6:33	Truly, these are the ones who were assisting, with their sons, from the sons of Kohath: the singer Heman, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel,
1 Chronicles 6:34	the son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah,
1 Chronicles 6:35	the son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai,
1 Chronicles 6:36	the son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah,
1 Chronicles 6:37	the son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah,
1 Chronicles 6:38	the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel.
1 Chronicles 6:39	And there was also his brother, Asaph, who was standing at his right, Asaph, the son of Berechiah, the son of Shimea,
1 Chronicles 6:40	the son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchijah,
1 Chronicles 6:41	the son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah,
1 Chronicles 6:42	the son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei,
1 Chronicles 6:43	the son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi.
1 Chronicles 6:44	Now the sons of Merari, their brothers, were on the left: Ethan, the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch,
1 Chronicles 6:45	the son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah,
1 Chronicles 6:46	the son of Amzi, the son of Boni, the son of Shemer,
1 Chronicles 6:47	the son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi.
1 Chronicles 6:48	There were also their brothers, Levites who were appointed for every ministry of the tabernacle of the house of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 6:49	Truly, Aaron and his sons were burning offerings upon the altar of holocausts and upon the altar of incense, for the entire work of the Holy of Holies, and to pray on behalf of Israel, in accord with all the things that Moses, the servant of God, had instructed.
1 Chronicles 6:50	Now these are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,
1 Chronicles 6:51	Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,
1 Chronicles 6:52	Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,
1 Chronicles 6:53	Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.
1 Chronicles 6:54	And these are their habitations according to the villages and confines, specifically of the sons of Aaron, according to the kindred of the Kohathites. For it fell to them by lot.
1 Chronicles 6:55	And so, they gave Hebron, in the land of Judah, and its suburbs all around, to them,
1 Chronicles 6:56	but they gave the fields of the city, and the villages, to Caleb, the son of Jephunneh.
1 Chronicles 6:57	Then, to the sons of Aaron, they gave the cities of refuge: Hebron, and Libnah with its suburbs,
1 Chronicles 6:58	also Jattir and Eshtemoa with their suburbs, then also Hilen and Debir with their suburbs,
1 Chronicles 6:59	as well as Ashan and Beth-shemesh with their suburbs.
1 Chronicles 6:60	And from the tribe of Benjamin: Geba with its suburbs, and Alemeth with its suburbs, as well as Anathoth with its suburbs. All the cities throughout their kindred were thirteen.
1 Chronicles 6:61	Now to the sons of Kohath, those remaining from their kindred, they gave ten cities, from the one half tribe of Manasseh, as a possession;
1 Chronicles 6:62	and to the sons of Gershom, according to their families, from the tribe of Issachar, and from the tribe of Asher, and from the tribe of Naphtali, and from the tribe Manasseh in Bashan: thirteen cities.
1 Chronicles 6:63	Then to the sons of Merari, according to their families, from the tribe of Reuben, and from the tribe of Gad, and from the tribe of Zebulun, they gave by lot twelve cities.
1 Chronicles 6:64	Also, the sons of Israel gave, to the Levites, cities and their suburbs,
1 Chronicles 6:65	and they gave them by lot, out of the tribe of the sons of Judah, and out of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, and out of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, these cities, which they called by their names.
1 Chronicles 6:66	And for those who were from the kindred of the sons of Kohath, the cities with their borders were from the tribe of Ephraim.
1 Chronicles 6:67	Then they gave to them the cities of refuge: Shechem with its suburbs on mount Ephraim, and Gezer with its suburbs,
1 Chronicles 6:68	as well as Jokmeam with its suburbs, and Beth-horon similarly,
1 Chronicles 6:69	and indeed Hilen with its suburbs, and Gath Rimmon in the same manner.
1 Chronicles 6:70	Then too, out of the one half tribe of Manasseh: Aner and its suburbs, Bileam and its suburbs; these in particular went to those who were remaining from the kindred of the sons of Kohath.
1 Chronicles 6:71	And to the sons of Gershom, from the kindred of the one half tribe of Manasseh: Golan, in Bashan, and its suburbs, and Ashtaroth with its suburbs;
1 Chronicles 6:72	from the tribe of Issachar: Kedesh and its suburbs, and Daberath with its suburbs,
1 Chronicles 6:73	as well as Ramoth and its suburbs, and Anem with its suburbs;
1 Chronicles 6:74	truly, from the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its suburbs, and Abdon similarly;
1 Chronicles 6:75	as well as Hukkok and its suburbs, and Rehob with its suburbs;
1 Chronicles 6:76	moreover, from the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee and its suburbs, Hammon with its suburbs, and Kiriathaim and its suburbs.
1 Chronicles 6:77	Then to the remaining sons of Merari, from the tribe of Zebulun: Rimmono and its suburbs, and Tabor with its suburbs;
1 Chronicles 6:78	and also, across the Jordan opposite Jericho, facing the east of the Jordan, from the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in the wilderness with its suburbs, and Jahzah with its suburbs;
1 Chronicles 6:79	as well as Kedemoth and its suburbs, and Mephaath with its suburbs;
1 Chronicles 6:80	indeed also, from the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead and its suburbs, and Mahanaim with its suburbs;
1 Chronicles 6:81	then too, Heshbon with its suburbs, and Jazer with its suburbs.
1 Chronicles 7:1	Now the sons of Issachar were Tola and Puah, Jashub and Shimron, four.
1 Chronicles 7:2	The sons of Tola: Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Ibsam, and Shemuel, leaders according to the houses of their kindred. From the stock of Tola, there were numbered, in the days of David, twenty-two thousand six hundred very strong men.
1 Chronicles 7:3	The sons of Uzzi: Izrahiah, from whom were born: Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel, and Isshiah; all five were leaders.
1 Chronicles 7:4	And with them, by their families and peoples, there were thirty-six thousand very strong men, girded for battle. And they had many wives and children.
1 Chronicles 7:5	Also, their brothers, throughout all the kindred of Issachar, were numbered as eighty-seven thousand, very fit for battle.
1 Chronicles 7:6	The sons of Benjamin: Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three.
1 Chronicles 7:7	The sons of Bela: Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth and Iri, five leaders of families, also very fit for battle; and their number was twenty-two thousand thirty-four.
1 Chronicles 7:8	Now the sons of Becher: Zemirah, and Joash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jeremoth, and Abijah, and Anathoth, and Alemeth: all these were sons of Becher.
1 Chronicles 7:9	And they were numbered according to their families, by the leaders of their kindred, very strong in warfare, twenty thousand and two hundred.
1 Chronicles 7:10	And the sons of Jediael: Bilhan, and the sons of Bilhan: Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tarshish, and Ahishahar.
1 Chronicles 7:11	All these were sons of Jediael, the leaders of their kindred, very strong men, seventeen thousand and two hundred, going forth to battle.
1 Chronicles 7:12	Also, Shuppim and Huppim, the sons of Ir; and Hushim, sons of Aher.
1 Chronicles 7:13	Then the sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, sons of Bilhah.
1 Chronicles 7:14	Also, the son of Manasseh: Asriel. And his concubine, a Syrian, bore Machir, the father of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 7:15	Now Machir took wives for his sons, Huppim and Shuppim. And he had a sister named Maacah; but the name of the second was Zelophehad, and daughters were born to Zelophehad.
1 Chronicles 7:16	And Maacah, the wife of Machir, bore a son, and she called his name Peresh. And the name of his brother was Sheresh. And his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
1 Chronicles 7:17	Then the son of Ulam: Bedan. These are the sons of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.
1 Chronicles 7:18	And his sister, Regina, bore Ishhod, and Abiezer, and Mahlah.
1 Chronicles 7:19	Now the sons of Shemida were Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi and Aniam.
1 Chronicles 7:20	And the sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, Bered his son, Tahath his son, Eleadah his son, Tahath his son, whose son was Zabad,
1 Chronicles 7:21	and his son was Shuthelah, and his son was Ezer, and also Elead. But the men indigenous to Gath killed them, because they had descended to invade their possessions.
1 Chronicles 7:22	And so their father, Ephraim, mourned for many days; and his brothers arrived, so that they might console him.
1 Chronicles 7:23	And he entered to his wife; she conceived and bore a son. And he called his name Beriah, because he rose up during a time of evil for his house.
1 Chronicles 7:24	Now his daughter was Sheerah, who built lower and upper Beth-horon, and also Uzzen-sheerah.
1 Chronicles 7:25	And Rephah was his son, and Resheph, and Telah, from whom was born Tahan,
1 Chronicles 7:26	who conceived Ladan. And his son was Ammihud, who conceived Elishama,
1 Chronicles 7:27	from whom was born Nun, who had Joshua as a son.
1 Chronicles 7:28	Now their possessions and habitations were: Bethel with her daughters, and toward the east, Naaran, and toward the western region, Gezer and her daughters, as well as Shechem with her daughters, as far as Ayyah with her daughters;
1 Chronicles 7:29	also, beside the sons of Manasseh, Bethshean and her daughters, Taanach and her daughters, Megiddo and her daughters, Dor and her daughters. In these places, there lived the sons of Joseph, the son of Israel.
1 Chronicles 7:30	The sons of Asher: Imnah, and Ishvah, and Ishvi, and Beriah, and Serah their sister.
1 Chronicles 7:31	And the sons of Beriah: Heber, and Malchiel, the same is the father of Birzaith.
1 Chronicles 7:32	Now Heber conceived Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and their sister Shua.
1 Chronicles 7:33	The sons of Japhlet: Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath; these are the sons of Japhlet.
1 Chronicles 7:34	Then the sons of Shomer: Ahi, and Rohgah, and Jehubbah, and Aram.
1 Chronicles 7:35	And the sons of Helem, his brother: Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal.
1 Chronicles 7:36	The sons of Zophah: Suah, Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah,
1 Chronicles 7:37	Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera.
1 Chronicles 7:38	The sons of Jether: Jephunneh, and Pispa, and Ara.
1 Chronicles 7:39	Then the sons of Ulla: Arah, and Hanniel, and Rizia.
1 Chronicles 7:40	All these were sons of Asher, the leaders of families, elect and very strong rulers among rulers. And the number of those who were of an age that was fit for warfare was twenty-six thousand.
1 Chronicles 8:1	Now Benjamin conceived Bela as his firstborn, Ashbel the second, Aharah the third,
1 Chronicles 8:2	Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
1 Chronicles 8:3	And the sons of Bela were: Addar, and Gera, and Abihud,
1 Chronicles 8:4	as well as Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah,
1 Chronicles 8:5	then also Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.
1 Chronicles 8:6	These are the sons of Ehud, leaders of the kindred living in Geba, who were moved away to Manahath.
1 Chronicles 8:7	And Naaman, and Ahijah, and Gera, he also moved them away; and he conceived Uzza and Ahihud.
1 Chronicles 8:8	Then Shaharaim conceived, in the region of Moab, after he sent away Hushim and Baara, his wives;
1 Chronicles 8:9	and so, of his wife Hodesh, he conceived Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcam,
1 Chronicles 8:10	and also Jeuz and Sachia, and Mirmah. These were his sons, the leaders of their families.
1 Chronicles 8:11	Truly, of Hushim he conceived Abitub and Elpaal.
1 Chronicles 8:12	And the sons of Elpaal were Eber, and Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono and Lod and its daughters.
1 Chronicles 8:13	Now Beriah and Shema were leaders of their families living in Aijalon; these put to flight the inhabitants of Gath.
1 Chronicles 8:14	And Ahio, and Shashak, and Jeremoth,
1 Chronicles 8:15	and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Eder,
1 Chronicles 8:16	as well as Michael, and Ishpah, and Joha, were the sons of Beriah.
1 Chronicles 8:17	Then Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hizki, and Heber,
1 Chronicles 8:18	and Ishmerai, and Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.
1 Chronicles 8:19	Then Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi,
1 Chronicles 8:20	and Elienai, and Zillethai, and Eliel,
1 Chronicles 8:21	and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.
1 Chronicles 8:22	Then Ishpan, and Eber, and Eliel,
1 Chronicles 8:23	and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan,
1 Chronicles 8:24	and Hananiah, and Elam, and Anthothijah,
1 Chronicles 8:25	and Iphdeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.
1 Chronicles 8:26	Then Shamsherai, and Shehariah and Athaliah,
1 Chronicles 8:27	and Jaareshiah, and Elijah, and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham.
1 Chronicles 8:28	These were the patriarchs and leaders of the families who were living in Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 8:29	Now in Gibeon, there lived Jeiel, the father of Gibeon; and the name of his wife was Maacah,
1 Chronicles 8:30	and his firstborn son was Abdon, and then Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab,
1 Chronicles 8:31	and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zecher, and Mikloth.
1 Chronicles 8:32	And Mikloth conceived Shimeah. And they lived opposite their brothers in Jerusalem, with their brothers.
1 Chronicles 8:33	Now Ner conceived Kish, and Kish conceived Saul. Then Saul conceived Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
1 Chronicles 8:34	And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal; and Meribbaal conceived Micah.
1 Chronicles 8:35	The sons of Micah were Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz.
1 Chronicles 8:36	And Ahaz conceived Jehoaddah. And Jehoaddah conceived Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri conceived Moza.
1 Chronicles 8:37	And Moza conceived Binea, whose son was Raphah, of whom was born Eleasah, who conceived Azel.
1 Chronicles 8:38	Now there were six sons for Azel, whose names were Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
1 Chronicles 8:39	Then the sons of Eshek, his brother, were Ulam the firstborn, and Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
1 Chronicles 8:40	And the sons of Ulam were very robust men, drawing the bow with great strength. And they had many sons and grandsons, even to one hundred fifty. All these were sons of Benjamin.
1 Chronicles 9:1	And so, all of Israel was numbered. And the sum of them was written in the book of the kings of Israel and of Judah. And they were taken away to Babylon because of their transgression.
1 Chronicles 9:2	Now the first who lived in their possessions and in their cities were Israel, and the priests, and the Levites, and the temple servants.
1 Chronicles 9:3	Staying in Jerusalem were some from the sons of Judah, and from the sons of Benjamin, and also from the sons of Ephraim and of Manasseh:
1 Chronicles 9:4	Uthai, the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, from the sons of Perez, the son of Judah.
1 Chronicles 9:5	And from Shiloni: Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons.
1 Chronicles 9:6	Then from the sons of Zerah: Jeuel, and their brothers, six hundred ninety.
1 Chronicles 9:7	And from the sons of Benjamin: Sallu, the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah;
1 Chronicles 9:8	and Ibneiah, the son of Jeroham; and Elah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri; and Meshullam, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah;
1 Chronicles 9:9	and their brothers according to their families, nine hundred fifty-six. All these were leaders of their kindred, according to the houses of their fathers.
1 Chronicles 9:10	And from the priests: Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, and Jachin;
1 Chronicles 9:11	and also Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the high priest of the house of God;
1 Chronicles 9:12	then Adaiah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah; and Maasai, the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer;
1 Chronicles 9:13	and also their brothers, leaders according to their families, one thousand seven hundred sixty, very strong experience men, for the work of the ministry in the house of God.
1 Chronicles 9:14	Then from the Levites: Shemaiah, the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;
1 Chronicles 9:15	and also Bakbakkar the carpenter; and Galal; and Mattaniah, the son of Mica, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph;
1 Chronicles 9:16	and Obadiah, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun; and Berechiah, the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who lived at the entrance to Netophah.
1 Chronicles 9:17	Now the gatekeepers were Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman; and their brother Shallum was the leader.
1 Chronicles 9:18	For until that time, at the gate of the king to the east, the sons of Levi served in their turns.
1 Chronicles 9:19	Truly, Shallum, the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, with his brothers and his father’s house, these Korahites, were over the works of the ministry of keeping the vestibules of the tabernacle. And their families, in turns, were keepers of the entrance to the camp of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 9:20	Now Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, was their ruler before the Lord.
1 Chronicles 9:21	But Zechariah, the son of Meshelemiah, was the keeper of the gate of the tabernacle of the testimony.
1 Chronicles 9:22	All these, chosen as porters for the gates, were two hundred twelve. And they were recorded in their own towns, those whom David, and the seer Samuel, appointed, in their faith,
1 Chronicles 9:23	as with them, so also with their sons, at the gates of the house of the Lord and the tabernacle, by their turns.
1 Chronicles 9:24	At the four directions, there were gatekeepers, that is, at the east, and at the west, and at the north, and at the south.
1 Chronicles 9:25	Now their brothers were staying in the villages, and they arrived on their Sabbaths, from time to time.
1 Chronicles 9:26	To these four Levites were entrusted the entire number of the gatekeepers, and they were over the chambers and storehouses of the house of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 9:27	And they remained in their watches, on all sides of the temple of the Lord, so that, when the time had arrived, they might open the gates in the morning.
1 Chronicles 9:28	Some from their kindred were also over the vessels of the ministry. For the vessels were both carried in and carried out according to number.
1 Chronicles 9:29	Some of them also were entrusted with the equipment of the sanctuary; they were in charge of the fine wheat flour, and the wine, and the oil, and the frankincense, and the aromatics.
1 Chronicles 9:30	Now the sons of the priests composed the ointments from the aromatics.
1 Chronicles 9:31	And Mattithiah, a Levite, the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, was in charge of those things that were cooked in a frying pan.
1 Chronicles 9:32	Now some of the sons of Kohath, their brothers, were over the bread of the presence, so that they might continually prepare it new for each Sabbath.
1 Chronicles 9:33	These are the leaders of the singing men, according to the families of the Levites, who were dwelling in the chambers, so that they might carry out their ministry continually, day and night.
1 Chronicles 9:34	The heads of the Levites, leaders according to their families, abode in Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 9:35	Now in Gibeon, there lived Jeiel, the father of Gibeon, and the name of his wife was Maacah.
1 Chronicles 9:36	His firstborn son was Abdon, and then Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab,
1 Chronicles 9:37	as well as Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth.
1 Chronicles 9:38	Then Mikloth conceived Shimeam. These lived opposite their brothers in Jerusalem, with their brothers.
1 Chronicles 9:39	Now Ner conceived Kish, and Kish conceived Saul. And Saul conceived Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
1 Chronicles 9:40	And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal. And Meribbaal conceived Micah.
1 Chronicles 9:41	Now the sons of Micah were Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea, and Ahaz.
1 Chronicles 9:42	And Ahaz conceived Jarah. And Jarah conceived Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri. Then Zimri conceived Moza.
1 Chronicles 9:43	Truly, Moza conceived Binea, whose son, Rephaiah, conceived Eleasah, from of whom was born Azel.
1 Chronicles 9:44	Now Azel had six sons, whose names are: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, Hanan. These are the sons of Azel.
1 Chronicles 10:1	Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from the Philistines, and they fell down wounded on mount Gilboa.
1 Chronicles 10:2	And when the Philistines had draw near, pursuing Saul and his sons, they struck down Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
1 Chronicles 10:3	And the battle grew heavy against Saul. And the archers found him, and they wounded him with arrows.
1 Chronicles 10:4	And Saul said to his armor bearer: “Unsheathe your sword and kill me. Otherwise, these uncircumcised men may arrive and mock me.” But his armor bearer was not willing, having been struck with fear. And so, Saul took hold of his sword, and he fell upon it.
1 Chronicles 10:5	And when his armor bearer had seen this, specifically, that Saul was dead, he now fell on his sword also, and he died.
1 Chronicles 10:6	Therefore, Saul died, and his three sons passed away, and his entire house fell, together.
1 Chronicles 10:7	And when the men of Israel who were living in the plains had seen this, they fled. And since Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned their cities and were dispersed, here and there. And the Philistines arrived and lived among them.
1 Chronicles 10:8	Then, on the next day, when the Philistines were taking away the spoils of the slain, they found Saul and his sons, lying on mount Gilboa.
1 Chronicles 10:9	And when they had despoiled him, and had cut off his head, and had stripped his armor, they sent these things into their land, so that they would be carried around and displayed in the temples of the idols and to the people.
1 Chronicles 10:10	But his armor they consecrated in the shrine of their god, and his head they affixed in the temple of Dagon.
1 Chronicles 10:11	When the men of Jabesh Gilead had heard this, specifically, all that the Philistines had done concerning Saul,
1 Chronicles 10:12	each one of the valiant men rose up, and they took the bodies of Saul and of his sons. And they brought them to Jabesh. And they buried their bones under the oak that was in Jabesh. And they fasted for seven days.
1 Chronicles 10:13	Thus did Saul die for his iniquities, because he betrayed the commandment of the Lord which he had instructed, and did not keep it. And moreover, he even consulted a woman diviner;
1 Chronicles 10:14	for he did not trust in the Lord. Because of this, he caused his death, and he transferred his kingdom to David, the son of Jesse.
1 Chronicles 11:1	Then all of Israel was gathered to David at Hebron, saying: “We are your bone and your flesh.
1 Chronicles 11:2	Also, yesterday and the day before, when Saul still reigned, you were the one who led out and brought in Israel. For the Lord your God said to you: ‘You shall pasture my people Israel, and you shall be the leader over them.’ ”
1 Chronicles 11:3	Therefore, all those greater by birth of Israel went to the king at Hebron. And David formed a pact with them before the Lord. And they anointed him king over Israel, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he spoke by the hand of Samuel.
1 Chronicles 11:4	Then David and all of Israel went to Jerusalem. The same is Jebus, where the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, were.
1 Chronicles 11:5	And those who were living in Jebus said to David: “You shall not enter here.” But David seized the stronghold of Zion, which is the city of David.
1 Chronicles 11:6	And he said, “Whoever shall strike the Jebusites first, shall be ruler and commander.” And so Joab, the son of Zeruiah, ascended first, and he was made the leader.
1 Chronicles 11:7	Then David lived in the stronghold, and for this reason it was called the City of David.
1 Chronicles 11:8	And he built up the city all around, from Millo even to every side. But Joab built the rest of the city.
1 Chronicles 11:9	And David continued advancing and increasing, and the Lord of hosts was with him.
1 Chronicles 11:10	These are the leaders of the strong men of David, who assisted him, so that he would become king over all of Israel, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he spoke to Israel.
1 Chronicles 11:11	And this is the number of the robust of David: Jashobeam, the son of a Hachmonite, leader among the thirty. He lifted up his spear over three hundred, who were wounded at one time.
1 Chronicles 11:12	And after him, there was Eleazar, the son of his uncle, an Ahohite, who was among the three powerful ones.
1 Chronicles 11:13	He was with David in Pasdammim, when the Philistines were gathered to that place for battle. Now the field of that region was full of barley, but the people had fled from the face of the Philistines.
1 Chronicles 11:14	These men stood in the midst of the field, and they defended it. And when they had struck down the Philistines, the Lord gave a great salvation to his people.
1 Chronicles 11:15	Then three from the thirty leaders descended to the rock where David was, to the cave of Adullam, when the Philistines had made camp in the Valley of the Rephaim.
1 Chronicles 11:16	Now David was in a stronghold, and a garrison of the Philistines was in Bethlehem.
1 Chronicles 11:17	And then David desired and said, “O if only someone would give me water from the well of Bethlehem, which is at the gate!”
1 Chronicles 11:18	Therefore, these three broke through to the midst of the camp of the Philistines, and they drew water from the well of Bethlehem, which was at the gate. And they took it to David, so that he might drink. But he was not willing; and instead, he offered it as a libation to the Lord,
1 Chronicles 11:19	saying: “Far be it from me, that I would do this in the sight of my God, and that I would drink the blood of these men. For at the peril of their own lives, they brought the water to me.” And for this reason, he was not willing to drink. The three most powerful accomplished these things.
1 Chronicles 11:20	Also, Abishai, the brother of Joab, was the leader of the three, and he lifted up his spear against three hundred, who were wounded. And he was most renown among the three,
1 Chronicles 11:21	and he was famous among the second three and their leader. Yet truly, he did not reach as far as the first three.
1 Chronicles 11:22	Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, from Kabzeel, was a very mature man, who had accomplished many deeds. He struck down the two lions of God from Moab. And he descended and killed a lion in the middle of a pit, in the time of snow.
1 Chronicles 11:23	And he struck down an Egyptian man, whose stature was five cubits, and who had a spear like a weaver’s beam. And yet he descended to him with a staff. And he seized the spear that he was holding in his hand. And he killed him with his own spear.
1 Chronicles 11:24	These things were done by Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, who was most renowned among the three robust ones,
1 Chronicles 11:25	the first among the thirty. Yet truly, he did not reach as far as the three. Then David placed him beside his ear.
1 Chronicles 11:26	Moreover, the strongest men of the army were Asahel, the brother of Joab; and Elhanan, the son of his uncle, from Bethlehem;
1 Chronicles 11:27	Shammoth, a Harorite; Helez, a Pelonite;
1 Chronicles 11:28	Ira, the son of Ikkesh, a Tekoite; Abiezer, an Anathothite;
1 Chronicles 11:29	Sibbecai, a Hushathite; Ilai, an Ahohite;
1 Chronicles 11:30	Maharai, a Netophathite; Heled, the son of Baanah, a Netophathite;
1 Chronicles 11:31	Ithai, the son of Ribai, from Gibeah, of the sons of Benjamin; Benaiah, a Pirathonite;
1 Chronicles 11:32	Hurai, from the torrent Gaash; Abiel, an Arbathite; Azmaveth, a Baharumite; Eliahba, a Shaalbonite.
1 Chronicles 11:33	The sons of Hashem, a Gizonite: Jonathan, the son of Shagee, a Hararite;
1 Chronicles 11:34	Ahiam, the son of Sachar, a Hararite;
1 Chronicles 11:35	Eliphal, the son of Ur;
1 Chronicles 11:36	Hepher, a Mecherathite; Ahijah, a Pelonite;
1 Chronicles 11:37	Hezro, a Carmelite; Naharai, the son of Ezbai;
1 Chronicles 11:38	Joel, the brother of Nathan; Mibhar, the son of Hagri;
1 Chronicles 11:39	Zelek, an Ammonite; Naarai, a Beerothite, the armor bearer of Joab, the son of Zeruiah;
1 Chronicles 11:40	Ira, an Ithrite; Gareb, an Ithrite;
1 Chronicles 11:41	Uriah, a Hittite; Zabad, the son of Ahlai;
1 Chronicles 11:42	Adina, the son of Shiza, a Reubenite, the leader of the Reubenites, and thirty who were with him;
1 Chronicles 11:43	Hanan, the son of Maacah; and Joshaphat, a Mithnite;
1 Chronicles 11:44	Uzzia, an Ashterathite; Shama and Jeiel, the sons of Hotham, an Aroerite;
1 Chronicles 11:45	Jediael, the son of Shimri; and Joha, his brother, a Tizite;
1 Chronicles 11:46	Eliel, a Mahavite; and Jeribai and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam; and Ithmah, a Moabite;
1 Chronicles 11:47	Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel from Mezobaite.
1 Chronicles 12:1	Also, these went to David at Ziklag, while he was still fleeing from Saul, the son of Kish. And they were very strong and distinguished fighters,
1 Chronicles 12:2	bending the bow, and using either hand in casting stones with slings, and shooting arrows. From the brothers of Saul, out of Benjamin:
1 Chronicles 12:3	the leader was Ahiezer, with Joash, sons of Shemaah from Gibeah, and Jeziel and Pelet, sons of Azmaveth, and Beracah and Jehu, from Anathoth.
1 Chronicles 12:4	Also, there was Ishmaiah, from Gibeon, the strongest among the thirty and over the thirty; Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Jozabad, from Gederah;
1 Chronicles 12:5	and Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and Shemariah, and Shephatiah, the Haruphites;
1 Chronicles 12:6	Elkanah, and Isshiah, and Azarel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, from Carehim;
1 Chronicles 12:7	and also Joelah and Zebadiah, sons of Jeroham, from Gedor.
1 Chronicles 12:8	Then too, from Gad, there went over to David, when he was hiding in the desert, very robust men, who were excellent fighters, taking hold of shield and spear; their faces were like the faces of a lion, and they were swift like the roe deer upon the mountains.
1 Chronicles 12:9	Ezer was the leader, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third,
1 Chronicles 12:10	Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth,
1 Chronicles 12:11	Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh,
1 Chronicles 12:12	Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth,
1 Chronicles 12:13	Jeremiah the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh.
1 Chronicles 12:14	These were from the sons of Gad, leaders of the army. The least was in charge of one hundred soldiers, and the greatest was in charge of one thousand.
1 Chronicles 12:15	These are the ones who crossed over the Jordan in the first month, when it is accustomed to overflow its banks. And they put to flight all those who were staying in the valleys, to the eastern region and to the west.
1 Chronicles 12:16	Then some from Benjamin and from Judah also arrived at the stronghold where David was staying.
1 Chronicles 12:17	And David went out to meet them, and he said: “If you have arrived peacefully, so as to be a help to me, may my heart be joined to you; but if to betray me to my adversaries, though I have no iniquity in my hands, may the God of our fathers see and judge.”
1 Chronicles 12:18	Truly, the Spirit clothed Amasai, the leader among the thirty, and he said: “O David, we are yours! O son of Jesse, we are for you! Peace, peace to you, and peace to your helpers. For your God helps you.” Therefore, David received them, and he appointed them as leaders of troops.
1 Chronicles 12:19	Moreover, some from Manasseh crossed over to David, when he went forth with the Philistines against Saul, so that he might fight. But he did not fight with them. For the leaders of the Philistines, taking counsel, sent him back, saying, “To the peril of our own heads, he will return to his lord, Saul.”
1 Chronicles 12:20	And so, when he returned to Ziklag, some fled over to him from Manasseh: Adnah, and Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Adnah, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and Zillethai, leaders of thousands in Manasseh.
1 Chronicles 12:21	These offered assistance to David against the robbers. For all were very strong men, and they became leaders in the army.
1 Chronicles 12:22	Then, too, some came to David throughout each day, in order to help him, until they became a great number, like the army of God.
1 Chronicles 12:23	Now this is the number of the leaders of the army who went to David when he was at Hebron, so that they might transfer the kingdom of Saul to him, in accord with the word of the Lord:
1 Chronicles 12:24	the sons of Judah, carrying shield and spear, six thousand eight hundred, equipped for battle;
1 Chronicles 12:25	from the sons of Simeon, very strong men for the fight, seven thousand one hundred;
1 Chronicles 12:26	from the sons of Levi, four thousand six hundred;
1 Chronicles 12:27	as well as Jehoiada, a leader from the stock of Aaron, and with him three thousand seven hundred;
1 Chronicles 12:28	and then Zadok, a youth of distinguished qualities, and the house of his father, twenty-two leaders;
1 Chronicles 12:29	and from the sons of Benjamin, brothers of Saul, three thousand, for still a great part of them were following the house of Saul.
1 Chronicles 12:30	Then from the sons of Ephraim, there were twenty thousand eight hundred, very strong and robust men, renowned among their kindred.
1 Chronicles 12:31	And out of the one half tribe of Manasseh, eighteen thousand, each by their names, went forth so that they might appoint David as king.
1 Chronicles 12:32	Also, from the sons of Issachar, there were learned men, who knew each of the times, in order to anticipate what Israel ought to do, two hundred leaders. And all the remainder of the tribe were following their counsel.
1 Chronicles 12:33	Then, from Zebulun, there were those who went forth to battle, and who were standing in a battle line, prepared with the weapons of warfare; these fifty thousand arrived to assist, without duplicity of heart.
1 Chronicles 12:34	And from Naphtali, there were one thousand leaders; and with them were thirty-seven thousand, prepared with shield and spear.
1 Chronicles 12:35	And then from Dan, there were twenty-eight thousand six hundred, ready for battle.
1 Chronicles 12:36	And from Asher, there were forty thousand, going forth to fight, and summoned to the battle line.
1 Chronicles 12:37	Then, across the Jordan, there were, from the sons of Reuben, and from Gad, and from the one half tribe of Manasseh, one hundred twenty thousand, prepared with the weapons of warfare.
1 Chronicles 12:38	All these men of war, equipped for the fight, went with a perfect heart to Hebron, so that they might appoint David as king over all of Israel. Then, too, all the remainder of Israel were of one heart, so that they might make David king.
1 Chronicles 12:39	And they were in that place with David for three days, eating and drinking. For their brothers had made preparations for them.
1 Chronicles 12:40	Moreover, those who were near to them, even as far as Issachar, and Zebulun, and Naphtali, were bringing, on donkeys and camels and mules and oxen, bread for their provisions, with grain, dried figs, dried grapes, wine, oil, and oxen and sheep, with all abundance. For indeed, there was joy in Israel.
1 Chronicles 13:1	Then David took counsel with the tribunes, and the centurions, and all the leaders.
1 Chronicles 13:2	And he said to the entire assembly of Israel: “If it pleases you, and if the words that I speak come from the Lord our God, let us send to the remainder of our brothers, in all the regions of Israel, and to the priests and Levites who live in the suburbs of the cities, so that they may gather to us.
1 Chronicles 13:3	And let us bring back the ark of our God to us. For we did not seek it during the days of Saul.”
1 Chronicles 13:4	And the entire multitude responded that it should be done. For the word had pleased all the people.
1 Chronicles 13:5	Therefore, David gathered all of Israel, from Shihor of Egypt even to the entrance of Hamath, so as to bring the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim.
1 Chronicles 13:6	And David ascended with all the men of Israel to the hill of Kiriath-jearim, which is in Judah, so that he might bring from there the ark of the Lord God, sitting upon the Cherubim, where his name is invoked.
1 Chronicles 13:7	And they placed the ark of God upon a new cart from the house of Abinadab. Then Uzzah and his brother drove the cart.
1 Chronicles 13:8	Now David and all of Israel were playing before God, with all of their ability, in songs, and with harps, and psalteries, and timbrels, and cymbals, and trumpets.
1 Chronicles 13:9	And when they had arrived at the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzzah reached out his hand, so that he might support the ark. For indeed, the ox being wanton had caused it to incline a little.
1 Chronicles 13:10	And so the Lord became angry against Uzzah. And he struck him down because he had touched the ark. And he died there before the Lord.
1 Chronicles 13:11	And David was greatly saddened because the Lord had divided Uzzah. And he called that place ‘the Division of Uzzah,’ even to the present day.
1 Chronicles 13:12	And then he feared God, at that time, saying: “How will I be able to bring in the ark of God to myself?”
1 Chronicles 13:13	And for this reason, he did not bring it to himself, that is, into the City of David. Instead, he turned aside to the house of Obededom, the Gittite.
1 Chronicles 13:14	Therefore, the ark of God dwelt in the house of Obededom for three months. And the Lord blessed his house and all that he had.
1 Chronicles 14:1	Also, Hiram, the king of Tyre, sent messengers to David, and cedar wood, and artisans of walls and of wood, so that they might build a house for him.
1 Chronicles 14:2	And David realized that the Lord had confirmed him as king over Israel, and that his kingdom had been lifted up over his people Israel.
1 Chronicles 14:3	Also, David took other wives in Jerusalem. And he conceived sons and daughters.
1 Chronicles 14:4	And these are the names of those who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua and Shobab, Nathan and Solomon,
1 Chronicles 14:5	Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpelet,
1 Chronicles 14:6	as well as Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
1 Chronicles 14:7	Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphelet.
1 Chronicles 14:8	Then, hearing that David had been anointed as king over all of Israel, all the Philistines ascended so that they might seek him. But when David had heard of it, he went out to meet them.
1 Chronicles 14:9	Now the Philistines, arriving, spread out in the Valley of the Rephaim.
1 Chronicles 14:10	And so David consulted the Lord, saying, “Shall I ascend to the Philistines, and will you deliver them into my hand?” And the Lord said to him, “Ascend, and I will deliver them into your hand.”
1 Chronicles 14:11	And when they had ascended to Baal-perazim, David struck them there, and he said: “God has divided my enemies by my hand, just as waters are divided.” And therefore the name of that place was called Baal-perazim.
1 Chronicles 14:12	And they left behind their gods in that place, and so David ordered them to be burned.
1 Chronicles 14:13	And then, at another time, the Philistines invaded, and they spread out in the valley.
1 Chronicles 14:14	And again, David consulted God. And God said to him: “You shall not ascend after them. Draw away from them. And you shall come against them opposite the balsam trees.
1 Chronicles 14:15	And when you hear a sound approaching in the tops of the balsam trees, then you shall go forth to war. For God has gone forth before you, so that he may strike down the army of the Philistines.”
1 Chronicles 14:16	Therefore, David did just as God had instructed him. And he struck down the army of the Philistines, from Gibeon as far as Gazera.
1 Chronicles 14:17	And the name of David became well-known in all the regions. And the Lord placed the fear of him over all the nations.
1 Chronicles 15:1	Also, he made houses for himself in the City of David. And built a place for the ark of God, and he set up a tent for it.
1 Chronicles 15:2	Then David said: “It is illicit for anyone to carry the ark of God except the Levites, whom the Lord chose to carry it and to minister to himself, even unto eternity.”
1 Chronicles 15:3	And he gathered all of Israel in Jerusalem, so that the ark of God might be brought into its place, which he had prepared for it.
1 Chronicles 15:4	Certainly, there were both the sons of Aaron and the Levites:
1 Chronicles 15:5	From the sons of Kohath, Uriel was the leader, and his brothers were one hundred twenty.
1 Chronicles 15:6	From the sons of Merari: Asaiah was the leader, and his brothers were two hundred twenty.
1 Chronicles 15:7	From the sons of Gershom: Joel was the leader, and his brothers were one hundred thirty.
1 Chronicles 15:8	From the sons of Elizaphan: Shemaiah was the leader, and his brothers were two hundred.
1 Chronicles 15:9	From the sons of Hebron: Eliel was the leader, and his brothers were eighty.
1 Chronicles 15:10	From the sons of Uzziel: Amminadab was the leader, and his brothers were one hundred twelve.
1 Chronicles 15:11	And David summoned the priests, Zadok and Abiathar, and the Levites: Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab.
1 Chronicles 15:12	And he said to them: “You who are the leaders of the Levitical families, be sanctified with your brothers, and bring the ark of the Lord God of Israel to the place that has been prepared for it.
1 Chronicles 15:13	Otherwise, as it was before, when the Lord struck us because you were not present, so also it might be now, if we do what is illicit.”
1 Chronicles 15:14	Therefore, the priests and the Levites were sanctified, so that they might carry the ark of the Lord God of Israel.
1 Chronicles 15:15	And the sons of Levi took the ark of God, just as Moses had instructed, in accord with the word of the Lord, upon their shoulders by the bars.
1 Chronicles 15:16	And David spoke to the leaders of the Levites, so that they might appoint, from their brothers, singers with musical instruments, specifically, psalteries, and harps, and cymbals, so that a joyful noise might resound on high.
1 Chronicles 15:17	And they appointed from the Levites: Heman, the son of Joel; and from his brothers, Asaph, the son of Berechiah; and truly, from their brothers, the sons of Merari: Ethan, the son of Kushaiah.
1 Chronicles 15:18	And with them were their brothers in the second rank: Zechariah, and Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jahiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, who were gatekeepers.
1 Chronicles 15:19	Now the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were sounding out with cymbals of brass.
1 Chronicles 15:20	And Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah were singing mysteries with the psalteries.
1 Chronicles 15:21	Then Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah and Obededom, and Jeiel and Azaziah were singing a song of victory with the harps, for the octave.
1 Chronicles 15:22	Now Chenaniah, the leader of the Levites, was foremost over the prophecies, in order to mark out in advance the melodies. For indeed, he was very skillful.
1 Chronicles 15:23	And Berechiah and Elkanah were porters of the ark.
1 Chronicles 15:24	And the priests, Shebaniah, and Joshaphat, and Nethanel, and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, were sounding the trumpets before the ark of God. And Obededom and Jehiah were porters of the ark.
1 Chronicles 15:25	Therefore, David, and all those greater by birth of Israel, and the tribunes, went to carry the ark of the covenant of the Lord from the house of Obededom with rejoicing.
1 Chronicles 15:26	And when God had assisted the Levites, who were carrying the ark of the covenant of the Lord, they immolated seven bulls and seven rams.
1 Chronicles 15:27	Now David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, as were all the Levites who were carrying the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah, the leader of the prophecy among the singers. But David was also clothed with a linen ephod.
1 Chronicles 15:28	And all of Israel were leading back the ark of the covenant of the Lord with jubilation, sounding out with the noise of horns, and trumpets, and cymbals, and psalteries, and harps.
1 Chronicles 15:29	And when the ark of the covenant of the Lord had arrived in the City of David, Michal, the daughter of Saul, gazing through a window, saw king David dancing and playing, and she despised him in her heart.
1 Chronicles 16:1	And so they took the ark of God, and they set it in the midst of the tabernacle, which David had pitched for it. And they offered holocausts and peace offerings before God.
1 Chronicles 16:2	And when David had completed offering holocausts and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 16:3	And he divided to every single one, from men even to women, a twist of bread, and a piece of roasted beef, and fine wheat flour fried with oil.
1 Chronicles 16:4	And he appointed some from the Levites who would minister before the ark of the Lord, and commemorate his works, and glorify and praise the Lord, the God of Israel.
1 Chronicles 16:5	Asaph was the leader, and second to him was Zechariah. In addition, there were Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obededom. And Jeiel was over the instruments of the psaltery and the harps. But Asaph sounded out with the cymbals.
1 Chronicles 16:6	Truly, the priests, Benaiah and Jahaziel, were to sound the trumpet continually before the ark of the covenant of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 16:7	In that day, David made Asaph the leader, in order to confess to the Lord with his brothers:
1 Chronicles 16:8	“Confess to the Lord, and invoke his name. Make known his endeavors among the peoples.
1 Chronicles 16:9	Sing to him, and sing psalms to him, and describe all his miracles.
1 Chronicles 16:10	Praise his holy name! Let the heart of those who seek the Lord rejoice!
1 Chronicles 16:11	Seek the Lord and his virtue. Seek his face always.
1 Chronicles 16:12	Remember his miracles, which he has accomplished, his signs, and the judgments of his mouth.
1 Chronicles 16:13	O offspring of Israel, his servants! O sons of Jacob, his elect!
1 Chronicles 16:14	He is the Lord our God. His judgments are throughout all the earth.
1 Chronicles 16:15	Remember forever his covenant, the word that he instructed unto a thousand generations,
1 Chronicles 16:16	the covenant that he formed with Abraham, and his oath with Isaac.
1 Chronicles 16:17	And he appointed the same to Jacob as a precept, and to Israel as an everlasting pact,
1 Chronicles 16:18	saying: ‘To you, I will give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance.’
1 Chronicles 16:19	At that time, they were small in number, they were few and were settlers there.
1 Chronicles 16:20	And they passed through, from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people.
1 Chronicles 16:21	He did not permit anyone to falsely accuse them. Instead, he reproved kings on their behalf:
1 Chronicles 16:22	‘Do not touch my Christ. And do not malign my prophets.’
1 Chronicles 16:23	Sing to the Lord, all the earth! Announce his salvation, from day to day.
1 Chronicles 16:24	Describe his glory among the Gentiles, his miracles among all the peoples.
1 Chronicles 16:25	For the Lord is great and exceedingly praiseworthy. And he is terrible, above all gods.
1 Chronicles 16:26	For all the gods of the peoples are idols. But the Lord made the heavens.
1 Chronicles 16:27	Confession and magnificence are before him. Strength and gladness are in his place.
1 Chronicles 16:28	Bring to the Lord, O families of the peoples, bring to the Lord glory and dominion.
1 Chronicles 16:29	Give glory to the Lord, to his name. Lift up sacrifice, and approach before his sight. And adore the Lord in holy attire.
1 Chronicles 16:30	Let all the earth be moved before his face. For he founded the globe immoveable.
1 Chronicles 16:31	Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth exult. And let them say among the nations, ‘The Lord has reigned.’
1 Chronicles 16:32	Let the sea roar, with all its plenitude. Let the fields exult, with all that is in them.
1 Chronicles 16:33	Then the trees of the forest will give praise before the Lord. For he comes to judge the earth.
1 Chronicles 16:34	Confess to the Lord, for he is good. For his mercy is eternal.
1 Chronicles 16:35	And say: ‘Save us, O God our savior! And gather us together, and rescue us from the nations, so that we may confess to your holy name, and may exult in your songs.
1 Chronicles 16:36	Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from eternity to eternity.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen,’ and let them sing a hymn to the Lord.”
1 Chronicles 16:37	And so, there before the ark of the covenant of the Lord, he left Asaph and his brothers, so that they might minister in the sight of the ark continually, throughout each day, and in their turns.
1 Chronicles 16:38	Now Obededom and his brothers were sixty-eight. And he appointed Obededom, the son of Jeduthun, and Hosah to be porters.
1 Chronicles 16:39	But Zadok the priest, and his brothers the priests, were before the tabernacle of the Lord in the high place, which was in Gibeon,
1 Chronicles 16:40	so that they could offer holocausts to the Lord upon the altar of holocausts continually, morning and evening, according to all that was written in the law of the Lord, which he instructed to Israel.
1 Chronicles 16:41	And after him, Heman, and Jeduthun, and the remainder of the elect, each one by his name, were appointed to confess to the Lord: “For his mercy endures forever.”
1 Chronicles 16:42	Also Heman and Jeduthun sounded the trumpet, and they played upon the cymbals, and upon every kind of musical instrument, in order to sing praises to God. But the sons of Jeduthun he made to be porters.
1 Chronicles 16:43	And all the people returned to their houses, and David also, so that he might bless his own house too.
1 Chronicles 17:1	Now when David was living in his house, he said to the prophet Nathan: “Behold, I live in a house of cedar. But the ark of the covenant of the Lord is under tent skins.”
1 Chronicles 17:2	And Nathan said to David: “Do all that is in your heart. For God is with you.”
1 Chronicles 17:3	And yet, that night the word of God came to Nathan, saying:
1 Chronicles 17:4	“Go, and speak to my servant David: Thus says the Lord: You shall not build a house for me as a dwelling place.
1 Chronicles 17:5	For I have not stayed in a house from the time when I led out Israel, even to this day. Instead, I have been continually changing places, in a tabernacle and tent,
1 Chronicles 17:6	dwelling with all of Israel. When did I ever speak to any one at all, among the judges of Israel whom I placed in charge so that they might pasture my people, saying: ‘Why have you not built a house of cedar for me?’
1 Chronicles 17:7	And so, now you shall say this to my servant David: Thus says the Lord of hosts: I took you when you were following the flock in the pastures, so that you would be the leader of my people Israel.
1 Chronicles 17:8	And I have been with you wherever you have gone. And I have slain all your enemies before you, and I have made a name for you like one of the great ones who are celebrated upon the earth.
1 Chronicles 17:9	And I have given a place to my people Israel. They shall be planted, and they shall live in it, and they shall no longer be moved. Neither shall the sons of iniquity wear them away, as in the beginning,
1 Chronicles 17:10	from the days when I gave judges to my people Israel, and I humbled all your enemies. Therefore, I announce to you that the Lord will build a house for you.
1 Chronicles 17:11	And when you will have completed your days, so that you go to your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall be from your sons. And I will establish his kingdom.
1 Chronicles 17:12	He shall build a house for me, and I will make firm his throne, even unto eternity.
1 Chronicles 17:13	I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. And I will not take away my mercy from him, as I took it away from the one who was before you.
1 Chronicles 17:14	And I will station him in my house and in my kingdom, even forever. And his throne will be very firm, in perpetuity.”
1 Chronicles 17:15	According to all these words, and according to this entire vision, so did Nathan speak to David.
1 Chronicles 17:16	And when king David had departed, and had sat down before the Lord, he said: “Who am I, O Lord God, and what is my house, that you would grant such things to me?
1 Chronicles 17:17	But even this has seemed little in your sight, and therefore you have also spoken about the house of your servant even for the future. And you have made me a spectacle above all men, O Lord God.
1 Chronicles 17:18	What more can David add, since you have so glorified your servant, and have known him?
1 Chronicles 17:19	O Lord, because of your servant, in accord with your own heart, you have brought about all this magnificence, and you have willed all these great things to be known.
1 Chronicles 17:20	O Lord, there is no one like you. And there is no other God apart from you, out of all whom we have heard about with our ears.
1 Chronicles 17:21	For what other single nation upon earth is like your people Israel, to whom God reached out, so that he might free them, and might make a people for himself, and by his greatness and terribleness cast out the nations before the face of those whom he had freed from Egypt?
1 Chronicles 17:22	And you have set your people Israel to be your people, even unto eternity. And you, O Lord, have become their God.
1 Chronicles 17:23	Now therefore, O Lord, let the word that you have spoken to your servant, and over his house, be confirmed in perpetuity, and do just as you have spoken.
1 Chronicles 17:24	And may your name remain and be magnified even for all time. And let it be said: ‘The Lord of hosts is the God of Israel. And the house of his servant David remains forever before him.’
1 Chronicles 17:25	For you, O Lord my God, have revealed to the ear of your servant that you will build a house for him. And therefore your servant has found faith so that he might pray before you.
1 Chronicles 17:26	Now then, O Lord, you are God. And you have spoken to your servant such great benefits.
1 Chronicles 17:27	And you have begun to bless the house of your servant, so that it may be always before you. For since it is you who is blessing, O Lord, it shall be blessed forever.”
1 Chronicles 18:1	Now after these things, it happened that David struck the Philistines, and he humbled them, and he took Gath and her daughters from the hand of the Philistines.
1 Chronicles 18:2	And he struck Moab. And the Moabites became the servants of David, offering gifts to him.
1 Chronicles 18:3	In that time, David also struck Hadadezer, the king of Zobah, in the region of Hamath, when he went forth so that he might extend his dominion as far as the river Euphrates.
1 Chronicles 18:4	Then David seized one thousand of his four-horse chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand men on foot. And he hamstrung all the chariot horses, except for one hundred four-horse chariots, which he reserved for himself.
1 Chronicles 18:5	Then the Syrians of Damascus also arrived, so that they might offer assistance to Hadadezer, the king of Zobah. And so, David then struck of them twenty-two thousand men.
1 Chronicles 18:6	And he stationed soldiers in Damascus, so that Syria also would serve him, and would offer gifts. And the Lord assisted him in all the things to which he went forth.
1 Chronicles 18:7	Also, David took the golden quivers, which the servants of Hadadezer had, and he brought them to Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 18:8	In addition, from Tibhath and Cun, cities of Hadadezer, he brought very much brass, from which Solomon made the sea of brass, and the pillars, and the vessels of brass.
1 Chronicles 18:9	Now when Toi, the king of Hamath, had heard this, specifically that David had struck the entire army of Hadadezer, the king of Zobah,
1 Chronicles 18:10	he sent his son Hadoram to king David so that he might petition peace from him, and so that he might congratulate him that he had struck and defeated Hadadezer. For indeed, Toi was an adversary to Hadadezer.
1 Chronicles 18:11	Moreover, all the vessels of gold and silver and brass king David consecrated to the Lord, with the silver and gold that he had taken from all the nations, as much from Idumea, and Moab, and the sons of Ammon, as from the Philistines and Amalek.
1 Chronicles 18:12	Truly, Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, struck eighteen thousand of the Edomites in the Valley of the Salt Pits.
1 Chronicles 18:13	And he stationed a garrison in Edom, so that Idumea would serve David. And the Lord saved David in all the things to which he went forth.
1 Chronicles 18:14	Therefore, David reigned over all of Israel, and he executed judgment and justice among all his people.
1 Chronicles 18:15	Now Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was over the army, and Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, was the keeper of records.
1 Chronicles 18:16	And Zadok, the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, were the priests. And Shavsha was the scribe.
1 Chronicles 18:17	Also, Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was over the legions of the Cherethites and Pelethites. But the sons of David were first at the hand of the king.
1 Chronicles 19:1	Now it happened that Nahash, the king of the sons of Ammon, died, and his son reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 19:2	And David said: “I will act with mercy toward Hanun, the son of Nahash. For his father was gracious to me.” And so David sent messengers to console him over the death of his father. But when they had reached the land of the sons of Ammon, so that they might console Hanun,
1 Chronicles 19:3	the leaders of the sons of Ammon said to Hanun: “Do you think that perhaps David has sent them to console you in order to honor your father? Have you not noticed that his servants came to you so that they might explore, and investigate, and examine your land?”
1 Chronicles 19:4	And so Hanun shaved the heads and beards of the servants of David, and he cut away their tunics from the buttocks to the feet, and he sent them away.
1 Chronicles 19:5	And when they had gone, and had sent word to David, (for they had suffered a great disgrace,) he sent to meet them, and he instructed them that they should remain at Jericho until their beards grew, and then they should return.
1 Chronicles 19:6	Then, when the sons of Ammon realized that they had committed an injury against David, both Hanun and the rest of the people sent one thousand talents of silver, so that they might hire for themselves chariots and horsemen from Mesopotamia, and from Syrian Maacah, and from Zobah.
1 Chronicles 19:7	And they hired thirty-two thousand chariots, and the king of Maacah with his people. When these had arrived, they made camp in the region opposite Medeba. Also, the sons of Ammon, gathering from their cities, went to war.
1 Chronicles 19:8	And when David had heard this, he sent Joab and the entire army of strong men.
1 Chronicles 19:9	And the sons of Ammon, going out, set up a battle line before the gate of the city. But the kings who had come to their aid stood separately in the field.
1 Chronicles 19:10	And so Joab, understanding the war to be set facing him and behind his back, chose the strongest men from all of Israel, and he went out against the Syrians.
1 Chronicles 19:11	But the remaining portion of the people he placed under the hand of his brother Abishai. And they went out against the sons of Ammon.
1 Chronicles 19:12	And he said: “If the Syrians prevail over me, then you shall be a help to me. But if the sons of Ammon prevail over you, I will be a safeguard for you.
1 Chronicles 19:13	Be strengthened, and let us act manfully on behalf of our people, and on behalf of the cities of our God. And the Lord will do what is good in his own sight.”
1 Chronicles 19:14	Therefore, Joab, and the people who were with him, went out to battle against the Syrians. And he put them to flight.
1 Chronicles 19:15	Then the sons of Ammon, seeing that the Syrians had fled, also themselves fled from Abishai, his brother, and they entered into the city. And now Joab returned to Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 19:16	But the Syrians, seeing that they had fallen before Israel, sent messengers, and they brought the Syrians who were across the river. And Shophach, the leader of the military of Hadadezer, was their commander.
1 Chronicles 19:17	When this had been reported to David, he gathered together all of Israel, and he crossed the Jordan. And he rushed toward them. And he set up a battle line facing them. And they fought against him.
1 Chronicles 19:18	But the Syrians fled from Israel. And David killed of the Syrians seven thousand chariots, and forty thousand men on foot, and Shophach, the leader of the army.
1 Chronicles 19:19	Then the servants of Hadadezer, seeing themselves to be overwhelmed by Israel, crossed over to David, and they served him. And Syria was no longer willing to offer aid to the sons of Ammon.
1 Chronicles 20:1	Now it happened that, after the course of a year, in the time when kings usually go forth to war, Joab gathered an army with experienced soldiers, and he laid waste to the land of the sons of Ammon. And he continued on and besieged Rabbah. But David was staying in Jerusalem when Joab struck Rabbah and destroyed it.
1 Chronicles 20:2	Then David took the crown of Milcom from his head, and he found in it the weight of one talent of gold, and very precious gems. And he made for himself a diadem from it. Also, he took the best spoils of the city, which were very many.
1 Chronicles 20:3	Then he led away the people who were in it. And he caused plows, and sleds, and iron chariots to go over them, so much so that they were cut apart and crushed. So did David treat all the cities of the sons of Ammon. And he returned with all his people to Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 20:4	After these things, a war was begun at Gezer against the Philistines, in which Sibbecai the Hushathite struck Sippai from the race of the Rephaim, and he humbled them.
1 Chronicles 20:5	Also, another war was undertaken against the Philistines, in which Adeodatus, a son of the forest, a Bethlehemite, struck the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the wood of whose spear was like a weaver’s beam.
1 Chronicles 20:6	Then too, another war occurred in Gath, in which there was a very tall man, having six digits, that is, all together twenty-four. This man too was born from the stock of the Rephaim.
1 Chronicles 20:7	He blasphemed Israel. And Jonathan, the son of Shimea, the brother of David, struck him down.
1 Chronicles 20:8	These were the sons of the Rephaim in Gath, who fell by the hand of David and his servants.
1 Chronicles 21:1	Now Satan rose up against Israel, and he incited David so that he would number Israel.
1 Chronicles 21:2	And David said to Joab and to the leaders of the people: “Go, and number Israel, from Beersheba even to Dan. And bring me the number, so that I may know it.”
1 Chronicles 21:3	And Joab responded: “May the Lord increase his people a hundred times more than they are. But, my lord the king, are they not all your servants? Why would my lord seek this thing, which may be imputed as a sin to Israel?”
1 Chronicles 21:4	But the word of the king prevailed instead. And Joab went away, and he traveled around, through all of Israel. And he returned to Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 21:5	And he gave to David the number of those whom he had surveyed. And the entire number of Israel was found to be one million and one hundred thousand men who could draw the sword; but from Judah, there were four hundred and seventy thousand men of war.
1 Chronicles 21:6	But Levi and Benjamin he did not number. For Joab executed the orders of the king unwillingly.
1 Chronicles 21:7	Then God was displeased with what had been ordered, and so he struck Israel.
1 Chronicles 21:8	And David said to God: “I have sinned exceedingly in doing this. I beg you take away the iniquity of your servant. For I have acted unwisely.”
1 Chronicles 21:9	And the Lord spoke to Gad, the seer of David, saying:
1 Chronicles 21:10	“Go, and speak to David, and tell him: Thus says the Lord: I give to you the option of three things. Choose the one that you will want, and I will do it to you.”
1 Chronicles 21:11	And when Gad had gone to David, he said to him: “Thus says the Lord: Choose what you will want:
1 Chronicles 21:12	Either three years of famine, or three months for you to flee from your enemies, unable to escape from their sword, or three days for the sword of the Lord and a pestilence to turn within the land, with the Angel of the Lord killing in every part of Israel. Now therefore, see what I should respond to him who sent me.”
1 Chronicles 21:13	And David said to Gad: “There are difficulties pressing upon me from every side. But it is better for me to fall into the hands of the Lord, for his mercies are many, than into the hands of men.”
1 Chronicles 21:14	Therefore, the Lord sent a pestilence upon Israel. And there fell from Israel seventy thousand men.
1 Chronicles 21:15	Also, he sent an Angel to Jerusalem, so that he might strike it. And while he was striking, the Lord saw and took pity over the magnitude of the harm. And he commanded the Angel who was striking: “It is enough. Now let your hand cease.” And the Angel of the Lord was standing beside the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
1 Chronicles 21:16	And David, lifting up his eyes, saw the Angel of the Lord, standing between heaven and earth with a drawn sword in his hand, turned toward Jerusalem. And both he and those greater by birth, being clothed in haircloth, fell prone upon the ground.
1 Chronicles 21:17	And David said to God: “Am I not the one who ordered that the people be numbered? It is I who sinned; it is I who did evil. This flock, what does it deserve? O Lord my God, I beg you to let your hand be turned against me and against the house of my father. But let not your people be struck down.”
1 Chronicles 21:18	Then the Angel of the Lord instructed Gad to tell David that he should ascend and build an altar to the Lord God on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
1 Chronicles 21:19	Therefore, David ascended, in accord with the word of Gad, which he had spoken to him in the name of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 21:20	Now when Ornan had looked up and seen the Angel, he and his four sons hid themselves. For at that time, he was threshing wheat upon the floor.
1 Chronicles 21:21	Then, as David was approaching Ornan, Ornan saw him, and he went out from the threshing floor to meet him. And he reverenced him prone on the ground.
1 Chronicles 21:22	And David said to him: “Give this place of your threshing floor to me, so that I may build an altar to the Lord upon it. And you shall accept from me as much money as it is worth, so that the plague may cease from the people.”
1 Chronicles 21:23	But Ornan said to David: “Take it, and may my lord the king do whatever pleases him. Moreover, I give the oxen also as a holocaust, and the plow for wood, and the wheat for a sacrifice. I will offer all freely.”
1 Chronicles 21:24	And king David said to him: “By no means shall it be so. Instead, I will give money to you, as much as it is worth. For I must not take it from you, and thereby offer to the Lord holocausts that cost nothing.”
1 Chronicles 21:25	Therefore, David gave Ornan, for the place, the very just weight of six hundred shekels of gold.
1 Chronicles 21:26	And he built an altar to the Lord there. And he offered holocausts and peace offerings, and he called upon the Lord. And he heeded him by sending fire from heaven upon the altar of the holocaust.
1 Chronicles 21:27	And the Lord instructed the Angel, and he turned his sword back into its sheath.
1 Chronicles 21:28	Then, seeing that the Lord had heeded him at the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, David immediately immolated victims there.
1 Chronicles 21:29	But the tabernacle of the Lord, which Moses had made in the desert, and the altar of holocausts, were at that time on the high place of Gibeon.
1 Chronicles 21:30	And David was unable to go to the altar, so that he might pray to God there. For he had been struck with an exceedingly great fear, seeing the sword of the Angel of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 22:1	And David said, “This is the house of God, and this is the altar for the holocaust of Israel.”
1 Chronicles 22:2	And he instructed them to gather all the new converts from the land of Israel. And from these he appointed stoneworkers, to hew stones and to polish them, so that he might build the house of God.
1 Chronicles 22:3	Also, David prepared very much iron to use for the nails of the gates, and for the seams and joints, as well as an immeasurable weight of brass.
1 Chronicles 22:4	Also, the cedar trees, which the Sidonians and Tyrians had transported to David, were not able to be counted.
1 Chronicles 22:5	And David said: “My son Solomon is a young and tender boy. But the house that I desire to be built to the Lord ought to be so great that it is renowned in every region. Therefore, I will prepare what will be necessary for him.” And for this reason, before his death, he prepared all the expenses.
1 Chronicles 22:6	And he called for Solomon, his son. And he instructed him to build a house to the Lord, the God of Israel.
1 Chronicles 22:7	And David said to Solomon: “My son, it was my will that I build a house to the name of the Lord my God.
1 Chronicles 22:8	But the word of the Lord came to me, saying: ‘You have shed much blood, and you have battled in many wars. You are not able to build a house to my name, so great was the shedding of blood before me.
1 Chronicles 22:9	The son who shall be born to you will be a very quiet man. For I will cause him to have rest from all his enemies on every side. And for this reason, he shall be called Peaceful. And I will grant peace and tranquility to Israel during all his days.
1 Chronicles 22:10	He shall build a house to my name. And he shall be a son to me, and I will be a father to him. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel unto eternity.’
1 Chronicles 22:11	Now then, my son, may the Lord be with you, and may you prosper and build a house to the Lord your God, just as he has spoken concerning you.
1 Chronicles 22:12	Also, may the Lord give you prudence and understanding, so that you may be able to rule Israel and to guard the law of the Lord your God.
1 Chronicles 22:13	For then you will be able to advance, if you keep the commandments and judgments that the Lord instructed Moses to teach to Israel. Be strengthened and act manfully. You should not fear, and you should not dread.
1 Chronicles 22:14	Behold, in my poverty I have prepared the expenses for the house of the Lord: one hundred thousand talents of gold, and one million of talents of silver. Yet truly, there is no measuring the brass and the iron. For their magnitude is beyond numbering. And I have prepared the timber and the stones for the entire project.
1 Chronicles 22:15	Also, you have very many artisans: stoneworkers, and builders of walls, and craftsmen of wood, and those most prudent in doing the work of every art,
1 Chronicles 22:16	with gold and silver, and with brass and iron, of which there is no number. Therefore, rise up and act. And the Lord will be with you.”
1 Chronicles 22:17	Also, David instructed all the leaders of Israel, so that they would assist his son Solomon,
1 Chronicles 22:18	saying: “You discern that the Lord your God is with you, and that he has given you rest on all sides, and that he has delivered all your enemies into your hands, and that the land has been subdued before the Lord and before his people.
1 Chronicles 22:19	Therefore, offer your hearts and your souls, so that you seek the Lord your God. And rise up and build a sanctuary to the Lord God, so that the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and the vessels consecrated to the Lord, may be brought into the house that is built to the name of the Lord.”
1 Chronicles 23:1	Then David, being old and full of days, appointed his son Solomon as king over Israel.
1 Chronicles 23:2	And he gathered together all the leaders of Israel, with the priests as well as the Levites.
1 Chronicles 23:3	And the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years and upward. And there were found thirty-eight thousand men.
1 Chronicles 23:4	Of these, twenty-four thousand were chosen and distributed to the ministry of the house of the Lord. Then six thousand were overseers and judges.
1 Chronicles 23:5	Moreover, four thousand were porters. And the same number were the singers of psalms to the Lord, with the musical instruments which he had made for the music.
1 Chronicles 23:6	And David distributed them into courses according to the sons of Levi, specifically, Gershom, and Kohath, and Merari.
1 Chronicles 23:7	The sons of Gershom: Ladan and Shimei.
1 Chronicles 23:8	The sons of Ladan: the leader Jahiel, and Zetham, and Joel, three.
1 Chronicles 23:9	The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, and Haziel, and Haran, three. These were the leaders of the families of Ladan.
1 Chronicles 23:10	Then the sons of Shimei: Jahath, and Zizah, and Jeush, and Beriah. These were the sons of Shimei, four.
1 Chronicles 23:11	Now Jahath was first, Zizah second, but Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons, and for this reason they were reckoned as one family and one house.
1 Chronicles 23:12	The sons of Kohath: Amram and Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel, four.
1 Chronicles 23:13	The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses. Now Aaron was separated so that he might minister in the Holy of Holies, he and his sons forever, and so that he might burn incense to the Lord, according to his rite, and so that he might bless his name in perpetuity.
1 Chronicles 23:14	The sons of Moses, the man of God, were also numbered in the tribe of Levi.
1 Chronicles 23:15	The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer.
1 Chronicles 23:16	The sons of Gershom: Shebuel the first.
1 Chronicles 23:17	Now the sons of Eliezer were Rehabiah the first. And there were no other sons for Eliezer. But the sons of Rehabiah were multiplied exceedingly.
1 Chronicles 23:18	The sons of Izhar: Shelomith the first.
1 Chronicles 23:19	The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.
1 Chronicles 23:20	The sons of Uzziel: Micah the first, Isshiah the second.
1 Chronicles 23:21	The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish.
1 Chronicles 23:22	Then Eleazar died, and had no sons, but only daughters. And so the sons of Kish, their brothers, married them.
1 Chronicles 23:23	The sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three.
1 Chronicles 23:24	These are the sons of Levi, in their kindred and families, leaders in turns, and the number of each of the heads who were doing the works of the ministry of the house of the Lord, from twenty years of age and upward.
1 Chronicles 23:25	For David said: “The Lord, the God of Israel, has given rest to his people, and a habitation in Jerusalem even unto eternity.
1 Chronicles 23:26	Neither shall it be the office of the Levites any more to carry the tabernacle with all its equipment for use in the ministry.”
1 Chronicles 23:27	Also, according to the last precepts of David, the sons of Levi shall be counted by number from twenty years of age and upward.
1 Chronicles 23:28	And they shall be under the hand of the sons of Aaron, in the care of the house of the Lord, in the vestibule, and in the chambers, and in the place of purification, and in the sanctuary, and in all the works of the ministry of the temple of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 23:29	But the priests shall be over the bread of the presence, and the sacrifice of fine wheat flour, and the unleavened cakes, and the frying pan, and the roasting, and over every weight and measure.
1 Chronicles 23:30	Yet truly, the Levites shall stand to confess and to sing to the Lord, in the morning, and similarly in the evening,
1 Chronicles 23:31	as much in the oblation of the holocausts of the Lord, as in the Sabbaths and new moons and other solemnities, according to the number and ceremonies for each and every matter, perpetually before the Lord.
1 Chronicles 23:32	And let them keep the observances of the tabernacle of the covenant, and the rituals of the sanctuary, and the observance of the sons of Aaron, their brothers, so that they may minister in the house of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 24:1	Now these were the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar.
1 Chronicles 24:2	But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and without children. And so Eleazar and Ithamar exercised the priestly office.
1 Chronicles 24:3	And David distributed them, that is, Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, according to their courses and ministry.
1 Chronicles 24:4	And there were found many more of the sons of Eleazar among the leading men, than of the sons of Ithamar. Therefore, he divided them so that there were, of the sons of Eleazar, sixteen leaders by their families, and of the sons of Ithamar eight by their families and houses.
1 Chronicles 24:5	Then he divided among them, in both families, by lot. For there were leaders of the sanctuary and leaders of God, as much from the sons of Eleazar as from the sons of Ithamar.
1 Chronicles 24:6	And the scribe Shemaiah, the son of Nethanel, a Levite, wrote these down before the king and the leaders, with Zadok, the priest, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, and also the leaders of the priestly and Levitical families. And there was one house, which was preeminent over the others, that of Eleazar; and there was another house, which had the others under it, that of Ithamar.
1 Chronicles 24:7	Now the first lot went forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
1 Chronicles 24:8	the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,
1 Chronicles 24:9	the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin,
1 Chronicles 24:10	the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,
1 Chronicles 24:11	the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah,
1 Chronicles 24:12	the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,
1 Chronicles 24:13	the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,
1 Chronicles 24:14	the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,
1 Chronicles 24:15	the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez,
1 Chronicles 24:16	the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel,
1 Chronicles 24:17	the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul,
1 Chronicles 24:18	the twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah.
1 Chronicles 24:19	These were their courses according to their ministries, so that they would enter into the house of the Lord in accord with their practice, under the hand of Aaron, their father, just as the Lord, the God of Israel, had instructed.
1 Chronicles 24:20	Now of the sons of Levi who were remaining, there were Shubael, from the sons of Amram, and Jehdeiah, from the sons of Shubael.
1 Chronicles 24:21	Also, there were Isshiah, the leader from the sons of Rehabiah,
1 Chronicles 24:22	and truly Shelomoth, the son of Izhar, and Jahath, the son of Shelomoth,
1 Chronicles 24:23	and his son, Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.
1 Chronicles 24:24	The son of Uzziel was Micah. The son of Micah was Shamir.
1 Chronicles 24:25	The brother of Micah was Isshiah. And the son of Isshiah was Zechariah.
1 Chronicles 24:26	The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The son of Uzziah was Beno.
1 Chronicles 24:27	Also, the son of Merari: Uzziah, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Hebri.
1 Chronicles 24:28	In addition, the son of Mahli was Eleazar, who had no children.
1 Chronicles 24:29	Truly, the son of Kish was Jerahmeel.
1 Chronicles 24:30	The sons of Mushi were Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of Levi according to the houses of their families.
1 Chronicles 24:31	And they also cast lots concerning their brothers, the sons of Aaron, before David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and the leaders of the priestly and Levitical families, as much concerning the elder as the younger. The lot divided all things equitably.
1 Chronicles 25:1	Then David and the magistrates of the army set apart, for the ministry, the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who were to prophesy with harps and psalteries and cymbals, in accord with their number, having been dedicated to their appointed office.
1 Chronicles 25:2	From the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asharelah, the sons of Asaph, under the hand of Asaph, prophesying beside the king.
1 Chronicles 25:3	Then of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, and Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hand of their father Jeduthun, who was prophesying with stringed instruments, while confessing and praising the Lord.
1 Chronicles 25:4	Also, of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamtiezer, and Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth.
1 Chronicles 25:5	All these were the sons of Heman, the seer of the king in the words of God, in order to lift up the horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
1 Chronicles 25:6	All these, under their father’s hand, were distributed in order to sing in the temple of the Lord, with cymbals and psalteries and harps, in the ministry of the house of the Lord beside the king, specifically, Asaph, and Jeduthun, and Heman.
1 Chronicles 25:7	Now the number of these, with their brothers, who were instructing in the song of the Lord, all the teachers, were two hundred eighty-eight.
1 Chronicles 25:8	And they cast lots in their turns, the elder equally with the younger, the learned together with the unlearned.
1 Chronicles 25:9	And the first lot went forth to Joseph, who was of Asaph; the second went forth to Gedaliah, to him and his sons and his brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:10	The third went to Zaccur, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:11	The fourth went to Izri, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:12	The fifth went to Nethaniah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:13	The sixth went to Bukkiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:14	The seventh went to Jesharelah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:15	The eighth went to Jeshaiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:16	The ninth went to Mattaniah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:17	The tenth went to Shimei, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:18	The eleventh went to Azarel, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:19	The twelfth went to Hashabiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:20	The thirteenth went to Shubael, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:21	The fourteenth went to Mattithiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:22	The fifteenth went to Jeremoth, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:23	The sixteenth went to Hananiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:24	The seventeenth went to Joshbekashah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:25	The eighteenth went to Hanani, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:26	The nineteenth went to Mallothi, to his sons and his brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:27	The twentieth went to Eliathah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:28	The twenty-first went to Hothir, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:29	The twenty-second went to Giddalti, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:30	The twenty-third went to Mahazioth, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 25:31	The twenty-fourth went to Romamtiezer, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 26:1	Now the divisions of the porters were, from the Korahites: Meshelemiah, the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.
1 Chronicles 26:2	The sons of Meshelemiah: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,
1 Chronicles 26:3	Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh.
1 Chronicles 26:4	Then the sons of Obededom: Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sachar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth,
1 Chronicles 26:5	Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth. For the Lord had blessed him.
1 Chronicles 26:6	Now to his son Shemaiah, there were born sons, rulers of their families. For they were very strong men.
1 Chronicles 26:7	Then the sons of Shemaiah were Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad and his brothers, very strong men, as well as Elihu and Semachiah.
1 Chronicles 26:8	All these were from the sons of Obededom: they and their sons and brothers, very fit for the ministry, sixty-two from Obededom.
1 Chronicles 26:9	Then there were the sons of Meshelemiah and their brothers, very robust men, eighteen.
1 Chronicles 26:10	Now, from Hosah, that is, from the sons of Merari: Shimri the leader, for he had not had a firstborn son, and so, because of this, his father had appointed him as the leader,
1 Chronicles 26:11	Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth. All these, the sons and brothers of Hosah, were thirteen.
1 Chronicles 26:12	These were distributed as porters, so that the leaders of the posts, as well as their brothers, were ministering continually in the house of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 26:13	Then they cast lots equally, for both the small and the great, by their families, concerning each one of the gates.
1 Chronicles 26:14	And the lot of the east fell out to Shelemiah. But to his son Zechariah, a very prudent and learned man, the northern section was obtained by lot.
1 Chronicles 26:15	Truly, Obededom and his sons obtained that to the south, in the part of the house where the council of elders was.
1 Chronicles 26:16	Shuppim and Hosah obtained that toward the west, beside the gate that leads to the way of the ascent, one post facing the other.
1 Chronicles 26:17	Truly, toward the east there were six Levites, and toward the north there were four per day, and then toward the south similarly there were four each day. And where the council was, there were two and two.
1 Chronicles 26:18	Also, in the cells of the porters toward the west, there were four along the way, and two at every cell.
1 Chronicles 26:19	These are the divisions of the porters of the sons of Kohath and of Merari.
1 Chronicles 26:20	Now Ahijah was over the treasuries of the house of God, and the holy vessels.
1 Chronicles 26:21	The sons of Ladan, sons of Gershon: from Ladan, leaders of the families of Ladan and of Gershon: Jehieli.
1 Chronicles 26:22	The sons of Jehieli: Zetham and Joel; his brothers were over the treasuries of the house of the Lord,
1 Chronicles 26:23	with the Amramites, and Izharites, and Hebronites, and Uzzielites.
1 Chronicles 26:24	Now, Shebuel, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was in the first place over the treasuries,
1 Chronicles 26:25	along with his brothers, Eliezer, and his son Rehabiah, and his son Jeshaiah, and his son Joram, and also his son Zichri, and his son Shelomoth.
1 Chronicles 26:26	The same Shelomoth and his brothers were over the treasuries of the holy things, which king David sanctified, with the leaders of the families, and the tribunes, and the centurions, and the commanders of the army.
1 Chronicles 26:27	These things were from the wars and from the best spoils of the battles, which they had consecrated for the repair and the furnishing of the temple of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 26:28	Now all these things were sanctified by Samuel, the seer, and by Saul, the son of Kish, and by Abner, the son of Ner, and by Joab, the son of Zeruiah. All those who had sanctified these were under the hand of Shelomoth and his brothers.
1 Chronicles 26:29	Yet truly, Chenaniah and his sons were over the Izharites, for the exterior works concerning Israel, in order to teach and to judge them.
1 Chronicles 26:30	Now from the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brothers, one thousand seven hundred very strong men, were in charge of Israel across the Jordan toward the west, in all the works of the Lord, and in the ministry of the king.
1 Chronicles 26:31	And the leader of the Hebronites was Jerijah, according to their families and kindred. In the fortieth year of the reign of David, they were numbered, and there were found very strong men in Jazer Gilead.
1 Chronicles 26:32	And his brothers of a mature age were two thousand seven hundred leaders of families. Then king David placed them in charge of the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the one half tribe of Manasseh, in all of the ministries of God and of the king.
1 Chronicles 27:1	Now the sons of Israel, according to their number, the leaders of the families, the tribunes, and the centurions, and the chiefs, who were ministering to the king by their companies, entering and departing in each month of the year as they were in charge, were twenty-four thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:2	Jashobeam, the son of Zabdiel, was in charge of the first company in the first month; and under him were twenty-four thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:3	He was from the sons of Perez, and he was the leader of all the other leaders in the army, in the first month.
1 Chronicles 27:4	The company of the second month had Dodai, an Ahohite; and after him there was another, named Mikloth, who ruled over a portion of the army of the twenty-four thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:5	Also, the commander of the third company, in the third month, was Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada the priest; and in his division there were twenty-four thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:6	The same is the Benaiah who was strongest among the thirty, and was above the thirty. But his son, Ammizabad, was in charge of his company.
1 Chronicles 27:7	The fourth, for the fourth month, was Asahel, the brother of Joab, and his son Zebadiah after him; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:8	The fifth leader, for the fifth month, was Shamhuth, an Izrahite; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:9	The sixth, for the sixth month, was Ira, the son of Ikkesh, a Tekoite; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:10	The seventh, for the seventh month, was Helez, a Pelonite from the sons of Ephraim; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:11	The eighth, for the eighth month, was Sibbecai, a Hushathite from the stock of the Zerahites; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:12	The ninth, for the ninth month, was Abiezer, an Anathothite from the sons of Benjamin; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:13	The tenth, for the tenth month, was Maharai, and he was a Netophathite from the stock of the Zerahites; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:14	The eleventh, for the eleventh month, was Benaiah, a Pirathonite from the sons of Ephraim; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:15	The twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Heldai, a Netophathite from the stock of Othniel; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:16	Now those who were first over the tribes of Israel were these: over the Reubenites, Eliezer, the son of Zichri, was the ruler; over the Simeonites, Shephatiah, the son of Maacah, was the ruler;
1 Chronicles 27:17	over the Levites, Hashabiah, the son of Kemuel; over the Aaronites, Zadok;
1 Chronicles 27:18	over Judah, Elihu, the brother of David; over Issachar, Omri, the son of Michael;
1 Chronicles 27:19	over the Zebulunites, Ishmaiah, the son of Obadiah; over the Naphtalites, Jeremoth, the son of Azriel;
1 Chronicles 27:20	over the sons of Ephraim, Hoshea, the son of Azaziah; over the one half tribe of Manasseh, Joel, the son of Pedaiah;
1 Chronicles 27:21	and over the one half tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo, the son of Zechariah; then over Benjamin, Jaasiel, the son of Abner;
1 Chronicles 27:22	yet truly, Azarel, the son of Jeroham, was over Dan. These were the leaders of the sons of Israel.
1 Chronicles 27:23	But David was not willing to number them from twenty years old and under. For the Lord had said that he would multiply Israel like the stars of heaven.
1 Chronicles 27:24	Joab, the son of Zeruiah, had begun to number, but he did not finish. For because of this, wrath had fallen upon Israel. And therefore the number of those who had been counted was not related in the official records of king David.
1 Chronicles 27:25	Now over the storerooms of the king was Azmaveth, the son of Adiel. But Jonathan, the son of Uzziah, was over those storerooms that were in the cities, and in the villages, and in the towers.
1 Chronicles 27:26	And over the farmlands and the farmers, those who worked the ground, was Ezri, the son of Chelub.
1 Chronicles 27:27	And over the cultivators of vineyards was Shimei, a Ramathite; then over the wine cellars was Zabdi, an Aphonite.
1 Chronicles 27:28	Now over the olive groves and the fig groves, which were in the plains, was Baal-hanan, a Gederite; and over the oil cellars was Joash.
1 Chronicles 27:29	Now over the herds that were pastured in Sharon, Shitrai, a Sharonite, was in the first place; and over the oxen in the valleys, there was Shaphat, the son of Adlai.
1 Chronicles 27:30	Truly, over the camels was Obil, an Ishmaelite; and over the donkeys was Jehdeiah, a Meronothite.
1 Chronicles 27:31	And over the sheep was Jaziz, a Hagarene. All these were leaders over the substance of king David.
1 Chronicles 27:32	Now Jonathan, the uncle of David, was a counselor, a prudent and scholarly man; he and Jehiel, the son of Hachmoni, were with the sons of the king.
1 Chronicles 27:33	Now Ahithophel was the counselor of the king; and Hushai, the Archite, was the king’s friend.
1 Chronicles 27:34	After Ahithophel was Jehoiada, the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar. But the leader of the army of the king was Joab.
1 Chronicles 28:1	And so David called together all the leaders of Israel, the rulers of the tribes, and those in charge of the companies, who were ministering to the king, and also the tribunes and centurions, and those in charge of the substance and possessions of the king, and his sons, with the eunuchs and the powerful and those most experienced in the army, at Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 28:2	And when the king had risen up and was standing, he said: “Listen to me, my brothers and my people. I thought that I would build a house, in which the ark of the covenant of the Lord, the footstool of our God, might rest. And so I prepared everything for its building.
1 Chronicles 28:3	But God said to me: ‘You shall not build a house to my name, because you are a man of war, and have shed blood.’
1 Chronicles 28:4	Now the Lord God of Israel chose me, out of the entire house of my father, so that I would be king over Israel forever. For from Judah he chose leaders; then from the house of Judah he chose the house of my father; and from the sons of my father, it pleased him to choose me as king over all of Israel.
1 Chronicles 28:5	Then too, among my sons (for the Lord has given me many sons) he chose Solomon my son, so that he would sit upon the throne of the kingdom of the Lord, over Israel.
1 Chronicles 28:6	And he said to me: ‘Solomon your son shall build my house and my courts. For I have chosen him to be to me as a son, and I will be to him as a father.
1 Chronicles 28:7	And I will make firm his kingdom, even unto eternity, if he will persevere in doing my precepts and judgments, as also today.’
1 Chronicles 28:8	Now therefore, before the entire assembly of Israel, in the hearing of our God, keep and seek all the commandments of the Lord our God, so that you may possess the good land, and may bequeath it to your sons after you, even forever.
1 Chronicles 28:9	And as for you, my son Solomon, know the God of your father, and serve him with a perfect heart and a willing mind. For the Lord searches all hearts, and understands the thoughts of all minds. If you seek him, you will find him. But if you abandon him, he will cast you aside for eternity.
1 Chronicles 28:10	Now therefore, since the Lord has chosen you, so that you would build the house of the Sanctuary, be strengthened and accomplish it.”
1 Chronicles 28:11	Then David gave to his son Solomon a description of the portico, and the temple, and the storerooms, and the upper floor, and the innermost rooms, and the house of propitiation,
1 Chronicles 28:12	and indeed also of all the courts that he had planned, and the outer rooms on all sides, for the treasuries of the house of the Lord, and for the treasuries of the holy things,
1 Chronicles 28:13	and for the divisions of the priests and the Levites: concerning all the works of the house of the Lord and all the items in the ministry of the temple of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 28:14	There was gold by weight for every vessel of the ministry, and also silver by weight for the diversity of vessels and equipment.
1 Chronicles 28:15	Then too, he distributed gold for the lampstands and their lamps, according to the measure of each of the lampstands with their lamps. Similarly also, he distributed silver by weight for the silver lampstands with their lamps, according to the diversity of their measure.
1 Chronicles 28:16	Also, he gave gold for the tables of the presence, according to the diversity of the tables; similarly too, he gave silver for the other tables of silver.
1 Chronicles 28:17	Also, he distributed from the purest gold for the small hooks and the bowls and the censors, as well as for the little lions of gold, in accord with the precise measure of the weight, for lion after lion. Similarly too, for the lions of silver, he set aside a different weight of silver.
1 Chronicles 28:18	Then, for the altar on which the incense was burned, he gave the purest gold. And from the same he made the likeness of the chariot of the Cherubim, with extended wings, which is veiling the ark of the covenant of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 28:19	“All these things,” he said, “came to me written by the hand of the Lord, so that I would understand all the works of the pattern.”
1 Chronicles 28:20	David also said to his son Solomon: “Act manfully, and be strengthened, and carry it out. You should not be afraid, and you should not be dismayed. For the Lord my God will be with you, and he will not send you away, nor will he abandon you, until you have perfected the entire work of the ministry of the house of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 28:21	Behold, the divisions of the priests and the Levites, for every ministry of the house of the Lord, are standing before you. And they have been prepared, and so they know, both the leaders and the people, how to carry out all your precepts.”
1 Chronicles 29:1	And king David spoke to the entire assembly: “My son Solomon, the one God has chosen, is still a tender boy. And yet the work is great, for a habitation is being prepared, not for man, but for God.
1 Chronicles 29:2	Now with all my ability, I have prepared the expenses for the house of my God: gold for items of gold, and silver for those of silver, brass for those of brass, iron for those of iron, and wood for those of wood, and stones of onyx, and stones like alabaster, and stones of diverse colors, and every kind of precious stone, and marble from Paros in great abundance.
1 Chronicles 29:3	And in addition to these things that I have offered into the house of my God, I give, from my own belongings, gold and silver for the temple of my God, aside from those things that I have prepared for the holy shrine:
1 Chronicles 29:4	three thousand talents of gold, from the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand talents of highly-refined silver, for the gilding of the walls of the temple;
1 Chronicles 29:5	and gold for wherever there is need of gold, and silver for wherever there is need of silver, for the works to be done by the hands of the artisans. And if anyone freely offers, let him fill his hand this day, and let him offer whatever he wishes to the Lord.”
1 Chronicles 29:6	And so the leaders of the families, and the nobles of the tribes of Israel, as well as the tribunes and the centurions and the overseers of the king’s possessions, promised
1 Chronicles 29:7	and gave, for the works of the house of the Lord, five thousand talents and ten thousand pieces of gold, ten thousand talents of silver, and eighteen thousand talents of brass, and also one hundred thousand talents of iron.
1 Chronicles 29:8	And whoever found precious stones among their belongings gave them to the treasuries of the house of the Lord, by the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite.
1 Chronicles 29:9	And the people rejoiced, since they were promising their votive offerings willingly. For they were offering these to the Lord with all their heart. And king David also rejoiced with great gladness.
1 Chronicles 29:10	And he blessed the Lord before the entire multitude, and he said: “Blessed are you, O Lord God of Israel, our Father from eternity to eternity.
1 Chronicles 29:11	Yours, O Lord, is magnificence and power and glory, and also victory; and to you is praise. For all the things that are in heaven and on earth are yours. Yours is the kingdom, O Lord, and you are above all rulers.
1 Chronicles 29:12	Yours is wealth, and yours is glory. You have dominion over all things. In your hand is virtue and power. In your hand is greatness and authority over all things.
1 Chronicles 29:13	Now therefore, we confess to you, our God, and we praise your famous name.
1 Chronicles 29:14	Who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able to promise all these things to you? All is yours. And so the things that we received from your hand, we have given to you.
1 Chronicles 29:15	For we are sojourners and new arrivals before you, as all our fathers were. Our days upon the earth are like a shadow, and there is no delay.
1 Chronicles 29:16	O Lord our God, all this abundance, which we have prepared so that a house may be built to your holy name, is from your hand, and all things are yours.
1 Chronicles 29:17	I know, my God, that you test hearts, and that you love simplicity. Therefore, in the simplicity of my heart, I also have offered all these things joyfully. And I have seen, with immense gladness, your people, who have been found here, offering their donations to you.
1 Chronicles 29:18	O Lord, the God of our fathers Abraham and Isaac and Israel, preserve unto eternity this desire of their heart, and let this purpose remain forever, for the worship of you.
1 Chronicles 29:19	Also, I give to my son Solomon a perfect heart, so that he may keep your commandments, your testimonies, and your ceremonies, and so that he may accomplish all things, and may build the temple, for which I have prepared the expenses.”
1 Chronicles 29:20	Then David instructed the entire assembly: “Bless the Lord our God.” And the entire assembly blessed the Lord, the God of their fathers. And they bowed themselves, and they adored God, and next they reverenced the king.
1 Chronicles 29:21	And they immolated victims to the Lord. And they offered holocausts on the following day: one thousand bulls, one thousand rams, one thousand lambs, with their libations and with every ritual, very abundantly, for all of Israel.
1 Chronicles 29:22	And they ate and drank before the Lord on that day, with great rejoicing. And they anointed Solomon, the son of David, a second time. And they anointed him to the Lord as the ruler, and Zadok as the high priest.
1 Chronicles 29:23	And Solomon sat upon the throne of the Lord as king, in place of his father David, and it pleased everyone. And all of Israel obeyed him.
1 Chronicles 29:24	Moreover, all the leaders, and the powerful, and all the sons of king David pledged with their hand, and they became subject to king Solomon.
1 Chronicles 29:25	Then the Lord magnified Solomon over all of Israel. And he gave to him a glorious reign, of a kind such as no one has had before him, as king of Israel.
1 Chronicles 29:26	Now David, the son of Jesse, reigned over all of Israel.
1 Chronicles 29:27	And the days during which he reigned over Israel were forty years. He reigned seven years in Hebron, and thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 29:28	And he died at a good old age, full of days and wealth and glory. And his son Solomon reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 29:29	Now the acts of king David, from the first to the last, have been written in the book of Samuel the seer, and in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer,
1 Chronicles 29:30	concerning his entire reign and strength, and the times that passed under him, both in Israel and in all the kingdoms of the lands.
2 Chronicles 1:1	Then Solomon, the son of David, was strengthened in his reign, and the Lord his God was with him, and he magnified him on high.
2 Chronicles 1:2	And Solomon instructed the whole of Israel, the tribunes, and the centurions, and the rulers, and the judges over all of Israel, and the leaders of the families.
2 Chronicles 1:3	And he went away with the entire multitude to the high place of Gibeon, where the tabernacle of the covenant of the Lord was, which Moses, the servant of God, made in the wilderness.
2 Chronicles 1:4	For David had brought the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim, to the place that he had prepared for it, and where he had pitched a tabernacle for it, that is, in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 1:5	Also, the altar of brass, which Bezalel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had constructed, was there before the tabernacle of the Lord. And so Solomon sought it, with the entire assembly.
2 Chronicles 1:6	And Solomon ascended to the bronze altar, before the tabernacle of the covenant of the Lord, and he offered upon it one thousand victims.
2 Chronicles 1:7	But behold, during that night God appeared to him, saying, “Request what you wish, so that I may give it to you.”
2 Chronicles 1:8	And Solomon said to God: “You have shown great mercy to my father David. And you have appointed me as king in his place.
2 Chronicles 1:9	Now therefore, O Lord God, let your word be fulfilled, which you promised to my father David. For you have made me king over your great people, who are as innumerable as the dust of the earth.
2 Chronicles 1:10	Give to me wisdom and understanding, so that I may enter and depart before your people. For who is able worthily to judge this, your people, who are so great?”
2 Chronicles 1:11	Then God said to Solomon: “Since this is the choice that pleased your heart, and you did not request wealth and substance and glory, nor the lives of those who hate you, nor even many days of life, since instead you requested wisdom and knowledge so that you may be able to judge my people, over whom I have appointed you as king:
2 Chronicles 1:12	wisdom and knowledge are granted to you. And I will give to you wealth and substance and glory, so that none of the kings either before you or after you will be similar to you.”
2 Chronicles 1:13	Then Solomon went from the high place of Gibeon to Jerusalem, before the tabernacle of the covenant, and he reigned over Israel.
2 Chronicles 1:14	And he gathered to himself chariots and horsemen. And they brought to him one thousand four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen. And he caused them to be in the cities of the chariots, and with the king in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 1:15	And the king offered silver and gold in Jerusalem as if they were stones, and cedar trees as if they were sycamores, which grow in the plains in a great multitude.
2 Chronicles 1:16	Then horses were brought to him from Egypt and from Kue, by the negotiators of the king, who went and bought for a price:
2 Chronicles 1:17	a four-horse chariot for six hundred pieces of silver, and a horse for one hundred fifty. A similar offer to purchase was made known among all the kingdoms of the Hittites, and among the kings of Syria.
2 Chronicles 2:1	And Solomon resolved to build a house to the name of the Lord, and a palace for himself.
2 Chronicles 2:2	And he numbered seventy thousand men to carry upon shoulders, and eighty thousand who were hewing stones in the mountains, and three thousand six hundred as their overseers.
2 Chronicles 2:3	Also, he sent to Hiram, the king of Tyre, saying: “Just as you did for my father David, when you sent him cedar wood, so that he might build a house for himself, in which he then lived,
2 Chronicles 2:4	do so also for me, so that I may build a house to the name of the Lord my God, so that I may consecrate it for the burning of incense before him, and for the smoke of aromatics, and for the perpetual bread of the presence, and for the holocausts, in morning and in evening, as well as on the Sabbaths and new moons and solemnities of the Lord our God forever, which have been commanded to Israel.
2 Chronicles 2:5	For the house that I desire to build is great. For our God is great, above all gods.
2 Chronicles 2:6	So then, who will be able prevail, so that he may build a worthy house for him? If heaven and the heavens of heavens cannot contain him, what am I that I would be able to build a house to him? But let it be for this only, so that incense may be burned before him.
2 Chronicles 2:7	Therefore, send to me a learned man, who knows how to work with gold and silver, with brass and iron, with purple, scarlet, and hyacinth, and who knows how to carve engravings, along with these artisans that I have with me in Judea and Jerusalem, whom my father David has prepared.
2 Chronicles 2:8	Then too, send to me cedar wood, and juniper, and pine from Lebanon. For I know that your servants know how to cut timber from Lebanon, and my servants will be with your servants,
2 Chronicles 2:9	so that very much wood may be prepared for me. For the house that I desire to build is exceedingly great and glorious.
2 Chronicles 2:10	In addition, I will give to your servants, the workers who will cut down the trees, for provisions: twenty thousand cor of wheat, and the same number of cor of barley, and twenty thousand measures of wine, as well as twenty thousand good measures of oil.”
2 Chronicles 2:11	Then Hiram, the king of Tyre, said, by a letter that had been sent to Solomon: “Because the Lord loved his people, for this reason he appointed you to reign over them.”
2 Chronicles 2:12	And he added, saying: “Blessed is the Lord, the God of Israel, who made heaven and earth, who gave to king David a son who is wise, and learned, and intelligent as well as prudent, so that he may build a house to the Lord, and a palace for himself.
2 Chronicles 2:13	Therefore, I have sent my father Hiram to you; he is a prudent and very knowledgeable man,
2 Chronicles 2:14	the son of a woman from the daughters of Dan, whose father was a Tyrian, who knows how to work with gold and silver, with brass and iron, and with marble and timber, as well as with purple, and hyacinth, and fine linen, and scarlet. And he knows how to carve every kind of engraving, and how to devise prudently whatever may be necessary to the work, with your artisans and with the artisans of my lord David, your father.
2 Chronicles 2:15	Therefore, send the wheat and barley and oil and wine, which you, my lord, have promised, to your own servants.
2 Chronicles 2:16	Then we will cut down as much wood from Lebanon as you will need, and we will convey them as rafts by sea to Joppa. Then it will be for you to transfer them to Jerusalem.”
2 Chronicles 2:17	And so Solomon numbered all the new converts who were in the land of Israel, after the numbering that David his father had done, and they were found to be one hundred fifty thousand and three thousand six hundred.
2 Chronicles 2:18	And he appointed seventy thousand of them, who would carry burdens on shoulders, and eighty thousand who would hew stones in the mountains, then three thousand and six hundred as overseers of the work of the people.
2 Chronicles 3:1	And Solomon began to build the house of the Lord, in Jerusalem on mount Moriah, as it had been shown to David his father, at the place which David had prepared on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
2 Chronicles 3:2	Now he began to build in the second month, in the fourth year of his reign.
2 Chronicles 3:3	And these are the foundations, which Solomon set forth so that he might build the house of God: the length in cubits by the first measure sixty, the width in cubits twenty.
2 Chronicles 3:4	Truly, at the front, the portico, which was extended in length according to the measure of the width of the house, was of twenty cubits. Then the height was of one hundred twenty cubits. And he overlaid it on the interior with the purest gold.
2 Chronicles 3:5	Also, he covered the greater house with wooden panels of spruce, and he affixed layers of refined gold through it all. And he engraved in them palm trees, and the likeness of little chains interlaced with one another.
2 Chronicles 3:6	Also, he paved the floor of the temple with the most precious marble, of great beauty.
2 Chronicles 3:7	Now the gold, with which he covered in layers the house and its beams and posts and walls and doors, was highly refined. And he engraved cherubim on the walls.
2 Chronicles 3:8	Also, he made the house of the Holy of Holies. Its length, in accord with the width of the temple, was of twenty cubits. And its width, similarly, was of twenty cubits. And he covered it with layers of gold, of about six hundred talents.
2 Chronicles 3:9	Then he also made nails of gold, such that each nail weighed fifty shekels. Also, he covered the upper rooms in gold.
2 Chronicles 3:10	Now he also made, in the house of the Holy of Holies, two cherubim as a work of statues. And he covered them with gold.
2 Chronicles 3:11	The wings of the cherubim extended for twenty cubits, such that one wing had five cubits and it touched the wall of the house, and the other, having five cubits, touched the wing of the other cherub.
2 Chronicles 3:12	Similarly, the wing of the other cherub was five cubits, and it touched the wall, and his other wing of five cubits also touched the wing of the other cherub.
2 Chronicles 3:13	And so the wings of both cherubim were stretched out and extended for twenty cubits. Now they were standing upright on their feet, and their faces were turned toward the exterior house.
2 Chronicles 3:14	Also, he made a veil from hyacinth, purple, scarlet, and fine linen. And he wove within it cherubim.
2 Chronicles 3:15	And also, before the doors of the temple, there were two pillars, having a height of thirty-five cubits. But their heads were of five cubits.
2 Chronicles 3:16	Then too, there were something like little chains on the oracle, and he placed these upon the heads of the pillars. And there were one hundred pomegranates, which he placed between the little chains.
2 Chronicles 3:17	Also, he placed these pillars in the vestibule of the temple, one to the right, and the other to the left. The one that was on the right, he called Jachin; and the one that was on the left, Boaz.
2 Chronicles 4:1	Also, he made a brass altar of twenty cubits in length, and of twenty cubits in width, and of ten cubits in height,
2 Chronicles 4:2	as well as a molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round in its circumference. It had five cubits in height, and a line of thirty cubits went around it on all sides.
2 Chronicles 4:3	Also, under it there was the likeness of oxen. And certain engravings encircled the cavity of the sea, along ten cubits of the outside, as if in two rows. Now the oxen were molten.
2 Chronicles 4:4	And the sea itself was placed upon the twelve oxen, three of which were looking toward the north, and another three toward the west, then another three toward the south, and the three that remained toward the east, having the sea imposed upon them. But the posteriors of the oxen were toward the interior, under the sea.
2 Chronicles 4:5	Now its thickness had the measure of the palm of a hand, and its brim was like the lip of a cup, or like the outturned petal of a lily. And it held three thousand measures.
2 Chronicles 4:6	Also, he made ten basins. And he placed five on the right, and five on the left, so that they might wash in them all the things that they were to offer as holocausts. But the priests were to be washed in the sea.
2 Chronicles 4:7	Then he also made ten gold lampstands, according to the form by which they had been ordered to be made. And he set them in the temple, five on the right, and five on the left.
2 Chronicles 4:8	Moreover, there were also ten tables. And he placed them in the temple, five on the right, and five on the left. Also, there were one hundred gold bowls.
2 Chronicles 4:9	Then too, he made the court of the priests, and a great hall, and doors in the hall, which he covered with brass.
2 Chronicles 4:10	Now he placed the sea on the right side, facing the east, toward the south.
2 Chronicles 4:11	Then Hiram made cooking pots and hooks and bowls. And he completed every work of the king in the house of God,
2 Chronicles 4:12	that is, the two pillars, and the crossbeams, and the heads, and something like a little net, which would cover the heads above the crossbeams,
2 Chronicles 4:13	and also four hundred pomegranates, and two little nets, so that two rows of pomegranates were joined to each net, which would cover the crossbeams and the heads of the pillars.
2 Chronicles 4:14	He also made bases; and basins that he placed upon the bases;
2 Chronicles 4:15	one sea, and twelve oxen under the sea;
2 Chronicles 4:16	and cooking pots and hooks and bowls. Hiram, his father, made all the vessels for Solomon, in the house of the Lord, from the purest brass.
2 Chronicles 4:17	The king cast these in the region near the Jordan, in the clay soil between Succoth and Zeredah.
2 Chronicles 4:18	Now the multitude of the vessels was innumerable, so much so that the weight of the brass was unknown.
2 Chronicles 4:19	And Solomon made all the vessels for the house of God, and the gold altar, and the tables upon which were the bread of the presence;
2 Chronicles 4:20	and also, of the purest gold, the lampstands with their lamps, to shine before the oracle, according to the rite;
2 Chronicles 4:21	and certain flowers, and lamps, and gold tongs. All these were made from the purest gold.
2 Chronicles 4:22	Also, the vessels for the perfumes, and the censers, and the bowls, and the little mortars were from the purest gold. And he engraved the doors of the inner temple, that is, for the Holy of Holies. And the doors of the outer temple were of gold. And so, every work was completed that Solomon made in the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 5:1	Then Solomon brought in all the things that David his father had vowed, the silver, and the gold, and all the vessels, which he placed in the treasuries of the house of God.
2 Chronicles 5:2	After this, he gathered together those greater by birth of Israel, and all the leaders of the tribes, and the heads of the families, from the sons of Israel, to Jerusalem, so that they might bring the ark of the covenant of the Lord from the City of David, which is Zion.
2 Chronicles 5:3	And so, all the men of Israel went to the king, on the solemn day of the seventh month.
2 Chronicles 5:4	And when all the elders of Israel had arrived, the Levites carried the ark,
2 Chronicles 5:5	and they brought it in, along with all the equipment of the tabernacle. Then too, the priests with the Levites carried the vessels of the sanctuary, which were in the tabernacle.
2 Chronicles 5:6	Now king Solomon, and the entire assembly of Israel, and all who had gathered together before the ark, were immolating rams and oxen without any number, for so great was the multitude of the victims.
2 Chronicles 5:7	And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the Lord to its place, that is, to the oracle of the temple, in the Holy of Holies, under the wings of the cherubim,
2 Chronicles 5:8	so that the cherubim extended their wings over the place where the ark was positioned, and they covered the ark itself and its bars.
2 Chronicles 5:9	But concerning the bars by which the ark was carried, because they were a little longer, the ends were able to be seen before the oracle. Yet truly, if anyone were a little ways toward the exterior, he would not be able to see them. And so the ark has been in that place, even to the present day.
2 Chronicles 5:10	And there was nothing else in the ark, except the two tablets, which Moses had placed there at Horeb when the Lord gave the law to the sons of Israel, at the departure from Egypt.
2 Chronicles 5:11	And having gone out from the Sanctuary, the priests (for all the priests who were able to be found there were sanctified, and in that time the turns and orders of the ministries had not yet been divided among them)
2 Chronicles 5:12	with both the Levites and the singing men, that is, those who were under Asaph, and those who were under Heman, and those who were under Jeduthun, with their sons and brothers, clothed in fine linen, sounded out with cymbals, and psalteries, and harps, standing toward the eastern side of the altar. And with them were one hundred twenty priests, sounding out with trumpets.
2 Chronicles 5:13	And when they all sounded out together, with trumpets, and voice, and cymbals, and pipes, and with various kinds of musical instruments, lifting their voice on high, the sound was heard from far away, so that when they had begun to praise the Lord, and to say, “Confess to the Lord, for he is good; for his mercy is eternal,” the house of God was filled with a cloud.
2 Chronicles 5:14	Neither were the priests able to stand and to minister, because of the cloud. For the glory of the Lord had filled the house of God.
2 Chronicles 6:1	Then Solomon said: “The Lord has promised that he would dwell in a cloud.
2 Chronicles 6:2	But I have built a house to his name, so that he may dwell there forever.”
2 Chronicles 6:3	And the king turned his face, and he blessed the entire multitude of Israel, (for the whole crowd was standing and attentive) and he said:
2 Chronicles 6:4	“Blessed is the Lord, the God of Israel, who has completed the work that he spoke to David my father, saying:
2 Chronicles 6:5	‘From the day when I led my people away from the land of Egypt, I did not choose a city from all the tribes of Israel, so that a house would be built in it to my name. And I did not choose any other man, so that he would be the ruler of my people Israel.
2 Chronicles 6:6	But I chose Jerusalem, so that my name would be in it. And I chose David, so that I might appoint him over my people Israel.’
2 Chronicles 6:7	And though David, my father, had decided that he would build a house to the name of the Lord God of Israel,
2 Chronicles 6:8	the Lord said to him: ‘In so far as it was your will that you build a house to my name, certainly you have done well in having such a will.
2 Chronicles 6:9	But you shall not build the house. Truly, your son, who will go forth from your loins, shall build a house to my name.’
2 Chronicles 6:10	Therefore, the Lord has accomplished his word, which he had spoken. And I have risen up in place of my father David, and I sit upon the throne of Israel, just as the Lord spoke. And I have built a house to the name of the Lord, the God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 6:11	And I have placed in it the ark, in which is the covenant of the Lord that he formed with the sons of Israel.”
2 Chronicles 6:12	Then he stood before the altar of the Lord, facing the entire multitude of Israel, and he extended his hands.
2 Chronicles 6:13	For indeed, Solomon had made a bronze base, and he had positioned it in the midst of the hall; it held five cubits in length, and five cubits in width, and three cubits in height. And he stood upon it. And next, kneeling down while facing the entire multitude of Israel, and lifting up his palms towards heaven,
2 Chronicles 6:14	he said: “O Lord God of Israel, there is no god like you in heaven or on earth. You preserve covenant and mercy with your servants, who walk before you with all their hearts.
2 Chronicles 6:15	You fulfilled for your servant David, my father, whatsoever you had said to him. And you carried out the deed that you promised with your mouth, just as the present time proves.
2 Chronicles 6:16	Now then, O Lord God of Israel, fulfill for your servant David, my father, whatsoever you said to him, saying: ‘There shall not fail to be a man from you before me, who will sit upon the throne of Israel, yet only if your sons will guard their ways, and will walk in my law, just as you also have walked before me.’
2 Chronicles 6:17	And now, O Lord God of Israel, let your word be confirmed that you spoke to your servant David.
2 Chronicles 6:18	How then is it to be believe that God would dwell with men upon the earth? If heaven and the heavens of the heavens do not contain you, how much less this house that I have built?
2 Chronicles 6:19	But it has been done for this only, so that you may look with favor upon the prayer of your servant, and on his supplication, O Lord my God, and so that you may hear the prayers which your servant pours out before you,
2 Chronicles 6:20	and so that you may open your eyes over this house, day and night, over the place where you promised that your name would be invoked,
2 Chronicles 6:21	and so that you may heed the prayer which your servant is praying within it, and so that you may heed the prayers of your servant and of your people Israel. Whoever will pray in this place, listen from your habitation, that is, from heaven, and forgive.
2 Chronicles 6:22	If anyone will have sinned against his neighbor, and he arrives to swear against him, and to bind himself with a curse before the altar in this house,
2 Chronicles 6:23	you will hear him from heaven, and you will execute justice for your servants, so that you return, to the iniquitous man, his own way upon his own head, and so that you vindicate the just man, repaying him according to his own justice.
2 Chronicles 6:24	If your people Israel will have been overwhelmed by their enemies, (for they will sin against you) and having been converted will do penance, and if they will have beseeched your name, and will have prayed in this place,
2 Chronicles 6:25	you will heed them from heaven, and you will forgive the sin of your people Israel, and you will lead them back into the land that you gave to them and to their fathers.
2 Chronicles 6:26	If the heavens have been closed, so that rain does not fall, because of the sin of the people, and if they will petition you in this place, and confess to your name, and be converted from their sins when you will afflict them,
2 Chronicles 6:27	heed them from heaven, O Lord, and forgive the sins of your servants and of your people Israel, and teach them the good way, by which they may advance, and give rain to the land that you gave to your people as a possession.
2 Chronicles 6:28	If a famine will have risen up in the land, or pestilence, or fungus, or mildew, or locusts, or beetles, or if enemies will have laid waste to the countryside and will have besieged the gates of the cities, or whatever scourge or infirmity will have pressed upon them,
2 Chronicles 6:29	if anyone from your people Israel, knowing his own scourge and infirmity, will have made supplication and will have extended his hands in this house,
2 Chronicles 6:30	you will heed him from heaven, indeed from your sublime habitation, and you will forgive, and you will repay each one according to his ways, which you know him to hold in his heart. For you alone know the hearts of the sons of men.
2 Chronicles 6:31	So may they fear you, and so may they walk in your ways, during all the days that they live upon the face of the land, which you gave to our fathers.
2 Chronicles 6:32	Also, if the outsider, who is not from your people Israel, will have arrived from a far away land, because of your great name, and because of your robust hand and your outstretched arm, and if he will adore in this place,
2 Chronicles 6:33	you will heed him from heaven, your most firm habitation, and you will accomplish all the things about which this sojourner will have called out to you, so that all the people of the earth may know your name, and may fear you, just as your people Israel do, and so that they may know that your name is invoked over this house, which I have built.
2 Chronicles 6:34	If, having gone out to war against their adversaries along the way that you will send them, your people adore you facing in the direction of this city, which you have chosen, and of this house, which I have built to your name,
2 Chronicles 6:35	you will heed their prayers from heaven, and their supplications, and you will vindicate them.
2 Chronicles 6:36	But if they will have sinned against you (for there is no man who does not sin) and you will have become angry against them, and if you will have delivered them to their enemies, and so they lead them away as captives to a far away land, or even to one that is near,
2 Chronicles 6:37	and if, having been converted in their heart in the land to which they had been led as captives, they will do penance, and beseech you in the land of their captivity, saying, ‘We have sinned; we have committed iniquity; we have acted unjustly,’
2 Chronicles 6:38	and if they will have returned to you, with their whole heart and with their whole soul, in the land of their captivity to which they were led away, and if they will adore you in the direction of their own land, which you gave to their fathers, and of the city, which you have chosen, and of the house, which I have built to your name,
2 Chronicles 6:39	from heaven, that is, from your firm habitation, you will heed their prayers, and you will accomplish judgment, and you will forgive your people, even though they are sinners.
2 Chronicles 6:40	For you are my God. Let your eyes be open, I beg you, and let your ears be attentive to the prayer that is made in this place.
2 Chronicles 6:41	Now therefore, rise up, O Lord God, to your resting place, you and the ark of your strength. Let your priests, O Lord God, be clothed with salvation, and let your holy ones rejoice in what is good.
2 Chronicles 6:42	O Lord God, may you not turn away from the face of your Christ. Remember the mercies of your servant, David.”
2 Chronicles 7:1	And when Solomon had completed pouring out his prayers, fire descended from heaven, and it devoured the holocausts and the victims. And the majesty of the Lord filled the house.
2 Chronicles 7:2	Neither were the priests able to enter into the temple of the Lord, because the majesty of the Lord had filled the temple of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 7:3	Moreover, all the sons of Israel saw the fire descending, and the glory of the Lord upon the house. And falling prone upon the ground, on the layer of pavement stones, they adored and praised the Lord: “For he is good. For his mercy is everlasting.”
2 Chronicles 7:4	Then the king and all the people were immolating victims before the Lord.
2 Chronicles 7:5	And so, king Solomon slaughtered victims: twenty-two thousand oxen, and one hundred twenty thousand rams. And the king and the entire people dedicated the house of God.
2 Chronicles 7:6	Then the priests and the Levites were standing in their offices, with the instruments of music for the Lord, which king David made in order to praise the Lord: “For his mercy is eternal.” And they were playing the hymns of David with their hands. And the priests were sounding out with trumpets before them, and all of Israel was standing.
2 Chronicles 7:7	Also, Solomon sanctified the middle of the atrium in front of the temple of the Lord. For he had offered the holocausts and the fat of peace offerings in that place because the bronze altar, which he had made, had not been able to support the holocausts and the sacrifices and the fat.
2 Chronicles 7:8	Therefore, Solomon kept the solemnity, at that time, for seven days, and all of Israel with him, a very great assembly, from the entrance of Hamath, even to the torrent of Egypt.
2 Chronicles 7:9	And on the eighth day, he held a solemn gathering, because he had dedicated the altar over seven days, and he had celebrated the solemnity over seven days.
2 Chronicles 7:10	And so, on the twenty-third day of the seventh month, he dismissed the people to their dwellings, joyful and glad over the good that the Lord had done for David, and for Solomon, and for his people Israel.
2 Chronicles 7:11	And Solomon completed the house of the Lord, and the house of the king, and all that he had resolved in his heart to do for the house of the Lord, and for his own house. And he prospered.
2 Chronicles 7:12	Then the Lord appeared to him by night, and said: “I have heard your prayer, and I have chosen this place for myself as a house of sacrifice.
2 Chronicles 7:13	If I close up heaven, so that no rain will fall, or if I order and instruct the locust to devour the land, or if I send a pestilence among my people,
2 Chronicles 7:14	and if my people, over whom my name has been invoked, being converted, will have petitioned me and sought my face, and will have done penance for their wicked ways, then I will heed them from heaven, and I will forgive their sins, and I will heal their land.
2 Chronicles 7:15	Also, my eyes will be open, and my ears will be attentive, to the prayer of him who shall pray in this place.
2 Chronicles 7:16	For I have chosen and sanctified this place, so that my name may be there continually, and so that my eyes and my heart may remain there, for all days.
2 Chronicles 7:17	And as for you, if you will walk before me, just as your father David walked, and if you will act in accord with all that I have instructed you, and if you will observe my justices and judgments,
2 Chronicles 7:18	I will raise up the throne of your kingdom, just as I promised to your father David, saying: ‘There shall not be taken away a man from your stock who will be ruler in Israel.’
2 Chronicles 7:19	But if you will have turned away, and will have forsaken my justices and my precepts, which I have set before you, and going astray, you serve strange gods, and you adore them,
2 Chronicles 7:20	I will uproot you from my land, which I gave to you, and from this house, which I sanctified to my name, and I will cast it away from before my face, and I will deliver it to be a parable and an example for all the peoples.
2 Chronicles 7:21	And this house will be like a proverb to all who pass by. And being astonished, they shall say: ‘Why has the Lord acted this way toward this land and toward this house?’
2 Chronicles 7:22	And they shall respond: ‘Because they abandoned the Lord, the God of their fathers, who led them away from the land of Egypt, and they took hold of foreign gods, and they adored and worshipped them. Therefore, all these evils have overwhelmed them.’ ”
2 Chronicles 8:1	Then, twenty years having passed since Solomon built the house of the Lord and his own house,
2 Chronicles 8:2	he built the cities that Hiram had given to Solomon, and he caused the sons of Israel to live there.
2 Chronicles 8:3	Also, he went to Hamath Zobah, and he obtained it.
2 Chronicles 8:4	And he built Palmira in the desert, and he built very fortified cities in Hamath.
2 Chronicles 8:5	And he built upper Beth-horon and lower Beth-horon, as walled cities, having gates and bars and locks,
2 Chronicles 8:6	as well as Baalath, and all the very strong cities which were of Solomon, and all the cities of the chariots, and the cities of the horsemen. Everything whatsoever that Solomon willed and decided, he built in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and throughout the entire land of his authority.
2 Chronicles 8:7	All the people who had been left from the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, those who were not from the stock of Israel,
2 Chronicles 8:8	those of their sons and their posterity whom the sons of Israel had not put to death, Solomon subjugated as tributaries, even to this day.
2 Chronicles 8:9	But he did not appoint anyone from the sons of Israel to serve in the works of the king. For they were men of war, and first rulers, and commanders of his chariots and horsemen.
2 Chronicles 8:10	Now all the leaders of the army of king Solomon were two hundred fifty, who were instructing the people.
2 Chronicles 8:11	Truly, he transferred the daughter of Pharaoh, from the City of David, to the house that he had built for her. For the king said: “My wife shall not live in the house of David, king of Israel, for it has been sanctified. For the ark of the Lord has entered into it.”
2 Chronicles 8:12	Then Solomon offered holocausts to the Lord on the altar of the Lord, which he had constructed before the portico,
2 Chronicles 8:13	so that every day there would be an offering on it, in accord with precept of Moses, on the Sabbaths, and on the new moons, and three times a year on the feast days, that is, on the solemnity of unleavened bread, and on the solemnity of weeks, and in the solemnity of tabernacles.
2 Chronicles 8:14	And he appointed, in accord with the plan of his father David, the offices of the priests in their ministries; and those of the Levites, in their orders, so that they might praise and minister before the priests according to the ritual of each day; and the porters, in their divisions, from gate to gate. For so had David, the man of God, instructed.
2 Chronicles 8:15	Neither the priests, nor the Levites, transgressed against the commands of the king, in all that he had instructed, and in the keeping of the treasuries.
2 Chronicles 8:16	Solomon had all the expenses prepared, from the day on which he founded the house of the Lord, even until the day when he perfected it.
2 Chronicles 8:17	Then Solomon went away to Eziongeber, and to Eloth, on the coast of the Red Sea, which is in the land of Edom.
2 Chronicles 8:18	And Hiram sent to him ships, by the hands of his servants, sailors and skillful navigators of the sea, and they went away with the servants of Solomon to Ophir. And they took from there four hundred fifty talents of gold, and they brought it to king Solomon.
2 Chronicles 9:1	Also, when the queen of Sheba had heard of the fame of Solomon, she came to Jerusalem, with great riches and with camels which were carrying aromatics, and very much gold, and precious gems, so that she might test him with enigmas. And when she had approached Solomon, she spoke to him all that was in her heart.
2 Chronicles 9:2	And Solomon explained for her all that she had proposed. And there was nothing that he did not make clear to her.
2 Chronicles 9:3	And after she saw these things, specifically, the wisdom of Solomon, and the house which he had built,
2 Chronicles 9:4	indeed also the foods of his table, and the habitations of the servants, and the duties of his ministers, and their apparel, and also his cupbearers and their garments, and the victims which he was immolating in the house of the Lord, there was no longer any spirit in her, due to astonishment.
2 Chronicles 9:5	And she said to the king: “The word is true, which I had heard in my own land, about your virtues and wisdom.
2 Chronicles 9:6	I did not believe those who described it, until I had arrived and my eyes had seen, and I had proven that not even half of your wisdom had been described to me. You have exceeded your fame with your virtue.
2 Chronicles 9:7	Blessed are your men, and blessed are your servants, who stand before you at all times and listen to your wisdom.
2 Chronicles 9:8	Blessed is the Lord your God, who willed to set you upon his throne as a king for the Lord your God. Since God loves Israel, he wishes to preserve them unto eternity. For this reason, he appointed you as king over them, so that you may accomplish judgment and justice.”
2 Chronicles 9:9	Then she gave to the king one hundred twenty talents of gold, and an exceedingly great abundance of aromatics, and very precious gems. Never were there such aromatics as those that the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon.
2 Chronicles 9:10	Then too, the servants of Hiram, with the servants of Solomon, brought gold from Ophir, and wood from thyine trees, and very precious gems.
2 Chronicles 9:11	And the king made, from this particular thyine wood, steps in the house of the Lord, and in the house of the king, and also harps and psalteries for the singing men. Never was there seen such wood in the land of Judah.
2 Chronicles 9:12	Then king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all that she desired, and all that she requested, and much more than what she had brought to him. And returning, she went away to her own land with her servants.
2 Chronicles 9:13	Now the weight of the gold, which was being brought to Solomon throughout each year, was six hundred sixty-six talents of gold,
2 Chronicles 9:14	apart from the sum that the legates of various nations and the merchants were accustomed to bring, and apart from the gold and silver that all the kings of Arabia, and the princes of the lands, were bringing together for Solomon.
2 Chronicles 9:15	And so, king Solomon made two hundred gold spears, from six hundred gold pieces, the amount used for each spear,
2 Chronicles 9:16	and also three hundred gold shields, from three hundred gold pieces, which covered each shield. And the king placed them in the armory, which was situated in a forest.
2 Chronicles 9:17	Also, the king made a great ivory throne, and he clothed it with the purest gold.
2 Chronicles 9:18	And there were six steps, by which he would ascend to the throne, and a footstool of gold, and two arms, one on each side, and two lions standing beside the arms.
2 Chronicles 9:19	Moreover, there were twelve additional little lions standing upon the six steps on both sides. There was no similar throne in all the kingdoms.
2 Chronicles 9:20	Also, all the vessels for the feasts of the king were of gold, and the vessels of the forest house of Lebanon were from the purest gold. For silver in those days was considered as nothing.
2 Chronicles 9:21	For indeed, the ships of the king went to Tarshish, with the servants of Hiram, once every three years. And they brought from there gold, and silver, and ivory, and primates, and peacocks.
2 Chronicles 9:22	And so, Solomon was magnified above all the kings of the earth in wealth and glory.
2 Chronicles 9:23	And all the kings of the lands were desiring to see the face of Solomon, so that they might hear the wisdom that God had granted to his heart.
2 Chronicles 9:24	And they were bringing to him gifts, vessels of silver and of gold, and garments, and armor, and aromatics, and horses, and mules, throughout each year.
2 Chronicles 9:25	Also, Solomon had forty thousand horses in the stables, and twelve thousand chariots and horsemen, and he appointed them to the cities of the chariots, and where the king was in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 9:26	Now he also exercised authority over all the kings from the river Euphrates as far as the land of the Philistines, and as far as the borders of Egypt.
2 Chronicles 9:27	And he brought forth so much silver that it was as plentiful in Jerusalem as stones. And cedar trees were as great in number as the sycamores that spring up in the plains.
2 Chronicles 9:28	And horses were brought to him from Egypt and from every region.
2 Chronicles 9:29	Now the rest of the works of Solomon, the first and the last, have been written in the words of Nathan, the prophet, and in the books of Ahijah, the Shilonite, as well as in the vision of Iddo, the seer, against Jeroboam, the son of Nabat.
2 Chronicles 9:30	And Solomon reigned in Jerusalem, over all of Israel, for forty years.
2 Chronicles 9:31	And he slept with his fathers. And they buried him in the City of David. And his son, Rehoboam, reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 10:1	Now Rehoboam set out for Shechem. For in that place all of Israel had convened, so that they might appoint him as king.
2 Chronicles 10:2	But when Jeroboam, the son of Nabat, who was in Egypt, (indeed he had fled to that place from Solomon) had heard it, he promptly returned.
2 Chronicles 10:3	And they summoned him, and he arrived with all of Israel. And they spoke to Rehoboam, saying:
2 Chronicles 10:4	“Your father pressed upon us a very difficult yoke. You should govern us more lightly than your father, who imposed on us a heavy servitude, and so lift up some of the burden, so that we may serve you.”
2 Chronicles 10:5	But he said, “Return to me after three days.” And when the people had gone away,
2 Chronicles 10:6	he took counsel with the elders, who had stood before his father Solomon while he was still living, saying, “What counsel would you give to me, so that I may respond to the people?”
2 Chronicles 10:7	And they said to him, “If you please this people, and if you soothe them with words of clemency, they will be your servants for all days.”
2 Chronicles 10:8	But he set aside the counsel of the elders, and he began to have discussion with the youth, who had been raised with him and who were among his companions.
2 Chronicles 10:9	And he said to them: “How does it seem to you? Or how should I respond to this people, who have said to me, ‘Lift up the yoke that your father imposed upon us?’ ”
2 Chronicles 10:10	But they responded like youths, having been raised with him in luxury, and they said: “So shall you speak to the people, who said to you, ‘Your father made our yoke heavy; you should lighten it,’ and so shall you respond to them: ‘My little finger is thicker than the back of my father.
2 Chronicles 10:11	My father imposed a heavy yoke upon you, and I will place more weight upon it. My father cut you with whips; truly, I will beat you with scorpions.’ ”
2 Chronicles 10:12	Then Jeroboam, and the entire people, went to Rehoboam on the third day, just as he had instructed them.
2 Chronicles 10:13	And the king responded harshly, abandoning the counsel of the elders.
2 Chronicles 10:14	And he spoke according to the will of the youths: “My father imposed a heavy yoke upon you, which I will make heavier. My father cut you with whips; truly, I will beat you with scorpions.”
2 Chronicles 10:15	And he did not acquiesce to the pleadings of the people. For it was the will of God that his word be fulfilled, which he had spoken by the hand of Ahijah, the Shilonite, to Jeroboam, the son of Nabat.
2 Chronicles 10:16	Then the entire people, speaking more harshly to the king, spoke to him in this way: “There is no portion for us in David, and there is no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Return to your dwellings, O Israel. Then you, O David, shall pasture your own house.” And Israel went away to their dwellings.
2 Chronicles 10:17	But Rehoboam reigned over the sons of Israel who were living in the cities of Judah.
2 Chronicles 10:18	And king Rehoboam sent Aduram, who was in charge of the tributes. And the sons of Israel stoned him, and he died. And so king Rehoboam hurried to climb into the chariot, and he fled to Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 10:19	And Israel withdrew from the house of David, even to this day.
2 Chronicles 11:1	Then Rehoboam went to Jerusalem, and he called together the entire house of Judah and of Benjamin, one hundred eighty thousand elect men of war, so that he might contend against Israel, and turn back his kingdom to himself.
2 Chronicles 11:2	And the word of the Lord came to Shemaiah, the man of God, saying:
2 Chronicles 11:3	“Speak to Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, the king of Judah, and to all of Israel who are of Judah, or of Benjamin:
2 Chronicles 11:4	Thus says the Lord: You shall not ascend and fight against your brothers. Let each one return to his own house. For it is by my will that this has happened.” And when they had heard the word of the Lord, they turned back, and they did not continue on against Jeroboam.
2 Chronicles 11:5	Then Rehoboam lived in Jerusalem, and he built fortified cities in Judah.
2 Chronicles 11:6	And he built up Bethlehem, and Etam, and Tekoa,
2 Chronicles 11:7	and also Bethzur, and Soco, and Adullam,
2 Chronicles 11:8	indeed also Gath, and Mareshah, and Ziph,
2 Chronicles 11:9	then too Adoram, and Lachish, and Azekah,
2 Chronicles 11:10	as well as Zorah, and Aijalon, and Hebron, which were very fortified cities in Judah and in Benjamin.
2 Chronicles 11:11	And when he had enclosed them with walls, he placed in them rulers, and storehouses of provisions, that is, of oil and wine.
2 Chronicles 11:12	Moreover, in each city he made an armory of shields and spears, and he strengthened them with the utmost diligence. And he ruled over Judah and Benjamin.
2 Chronicles 11:13	Then the priests and Levites, who were in all of Israel, came to him from all their settlements,
2 Chronicles 11:14	leaving behind their suburbs and possessions, and crossing over to Judah and to Jerusalem. For Jeroboam and his followers had cast them out, so that they could not exercise the priestly office to the Lord.
2 Chronicles 11:15	And he appointed for himself priests of high places, and of demons, and of calves that he had made.
2 Chronicles 11:16	Moreover, out of all the tribes of Israel, whosoever would give their heart so that they sought the Lord God of Israel, they went to Jerusalem to immolate their victims before the Lord, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 11:17	And they strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and they confirmed Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, for three years. For they walked in the ways of David and of Solomon, but only for three years.
2 Chronicles 11:18	Then Rehoboam took as wife Mahalath, the daughter of Jerimoth, son of David, and also Abihail, the daughter of Eliab, son of Jesse.
2 Chronicles 11:19	They bore sons for him: Jeush, and Shemariah, and Zaham.
2 Chronicles 11:20	And also after her, he married Maacah, the daughter of Absalom, who bore for him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.
2 Chronicles 11:21	But Rehoboam loved Maacah, the daughter of Absalom, above all his wives and concubines. For he had taken eighteen wives and sixty concubines. And he conceived twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters.
2 Chronicles 11:22	Truly, he appointed as the head, Abijah, the son of Maacah, to be the ruler over all his brothers. For he thought to make him king,
2 Chronicles 11:23	since he was wiser and more powerful than all his sons, even in all the regions of Judah and Benjamin, and in all the fortified cities. And he provided them with very much food, and he sought many wives.
2 Chronicles 12:1	And when the kingdom of Rehoboam had been strengthened and fortified, he abandoned the law of the Lord, and all of Israel with him.
2 Chronicles 12:2	Then, in the fifth year of the reign of Rehoboam, Shishak, the king of Egypt, ascended against Jerusalem (for they had sinned against the Lord)
2 Chronicles 12:3	with one thousand two hundred chariots and sixty thousand horsemen. And the common people could not be numbered who had arrived with him from Egypt, namely, the Libyans, and the Troglodytes, and the Ethiopians.
2 Chronicles 12:4	And he seized the most fortified cities in Judah, and he went even to Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 12:5	Then Shemaiah, the prophet, entered to Rehoboam, and to the leaders of Judah who had gathered together in Jerusalem while fleeing from Shishak, and he said to them: “Thus says the Lord: You have abandoned me, and so I have abandoned you into the hand of Shishak.”
2 Chronicles 12:6	And the leaders of Israel, and the king, being in consternation, said, “The Lord is just.”
2 Chronicles 12:7	And when the Lord had seen that they were humbled, the word of the Lord came to Shemaiah, saying: “Because they have been humbled, I will not disperse them. And I will give to them a little help, and my fury will not rain down upon Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak.
2 Chronicles 12:8	Yet truly, they shall serve him, so that they may know the difference between my servitude, and the servitude of a kingdom of the lands.”
2 Chronicles 12:9	And so Shishak, the king of Egypt, withdrew from Jerusalem, taking up the treasures of the house of the Lord and of the house of the king. And he took away everything with him, even the gold shields that Solomon had made.
2 Chronicles 12:10	In place of these, the king made bronze ones, and he delivered them to the leaders of the shield bearers, who were guarding the vestibule of the palace.
2 Chronicles 12:11	And when the king would enter into the house of the Lord, the shield bearers would arrive and take them, and they would carry them back to their armory.
2 Chronicles 12:12	Yet truly, because they were humbled, the wrath of the Lord turned away from them, and so they were not utterly destroyed. And indeed, good works were also found in Judah.
2 Chronicles 12:13	Therefore, king Rehoboam was strengthened in Jerusalem, and he reigned. He was forty-one years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city that the Lord chose out of all the tribes of Israel, so that he might confirm his name there. Now the name of his mother was Naamah, an Ammonite.
2 Chronicles 12:14	But he did evil, and he did not prepare his heart so as to seek the Lord.
2 Chronicles 12:15	Truly, the works of Rehoboam, the first and the last, have been written in the books of Shemaiah, the prophet, and of Iddo, the seer, and diligently set forth. And Rehoboam and Jeroboam fought against one another during all their days.
2 Chronicles 12:16	And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the City of David. And his son, Abijah, reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 13:1	In the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam, Abijah reigned over Judah.
2 Chronicles 13:2	He reigned for three years in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother was Micaiah, the daughter of Uriel, from Gibeah. And there was war between Abijah and Jeroboam.
2 Chronicles 13:3	And when Abijah had undertaken the conflict, and he had with him four hundred thousand elect men, very fit for war, Jeroboam set up a battle line opposite him of eight hundred thousand men, who were also elect and very strong in warfare.
2 Chronicles 13:4	Then Abijah stood upon mount Zemaraim, which was in Ephraim, and he said: “Listen to me, Jeroboam and all of Israel.
2 Chronicles 13:5	Are you ignorant that the Lord, the God of Israel, gave David the kingship over Israel for all time, to him and to his sons, by a covenant of salt?
2 Chronicles 13:6	But Jeroboam, the son of Nabat, the servant of Solomon, son of David, rose up and rebelled against his lord.
2 Chronicles 13:7	And there were gathered to him very vain men, and sons of Belial. And they prevailed against Rehoboam, the son of Solomon. For Rehoboam was inexperienced, and he had a fearful heart, and so he was unable to resist them.
2 Chronicles 13:8	Now therefore, you say that you are able to resist the kingdom of the Lord, which he possesses through the sons of David, and you have a great multitude of people, and gold calves, which Jeroboam made for you as gods.
2 Chronicles 13:9	And you have cast out the priests of the Lord, the sons of Aaron, as well as the Levites. And like all the peoples of the lands, you have made priests for yourselves. Anyone who is willing to come and perform the ritual by his hand, with a bull from the herd and with seven rams, is made a priest of those who are not gods.
2 Chronicles 13:10	But the Lord is our God, and we have not forsaken him. And the priests who minister to the Lord are from the sons of Aaron. And the Levites are in their proper order.
2 Chronicles 13:11	Also, they offer holocausts to the Lord, each and every day, morning and evening, and incense composed according to the precept of the law, and the bread of the presence on a very pure table. And there is with us the gold lampstand with its lamps, so that they may burn continually in the evening. For certainly, we keep the precepts of the Lord our God, whom you have forsaken.
2 Chronicles 13:12	Therefore, God is the commander of our army, with his priests, who sound the trumpets that ring out against you. O sons of Israel, do not choose to fight against the Lord, the God of your fathers. For it is not expedient for you.”
2 Chronicles 13:13	While he was speaking these things, Jeroboam set in motion an ambush behind them. And while they stood facing the enemy, without Judah realizing it, his army circled around.
2 Chronicles 13:14	And looking back, Judah saw the war threatening in front and behind, and they cried out to the Lord. And the priests began to sound the trumpets.
2 Chronicles 13:15	And all the men of Judah shouted out. And behold, when they cried out, God terrified Jeroboam, and all of Israel who were standing in opposition to Abijah and Judah.
2 Chronicles 13:16	And the sons of Israel fled from Judah, and the Lord delivered them into their hand.
2 Chronicles 13:17	Therefore, Abijah and his people struck them with a great slaughter. And five hundred thousand strong men of Israel fell wounded.
2 Chronicles 13:18	And the sons of Israel were humiliated at that time. And the sons of Judah were very greatly strengthened, because they had trusted in the Lord, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 13:19	Then Abijah pursued the fleeing Jeroboam. And he seized cities from him: Bethel and her daughters, and Jeshanah with her daughters, and also Ephron and her daughters.
2 Chronicles 13:20	And Jeroboam no longer had the strength to resist, in the days of Abijah. And the Lord struck him, and he died.
2 Chronicles 13:21	And so Abijah, having been strengthened in his authority, took fourteen wives. And he procreated twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters.
2 Chronicles 13:22	Now the rest of the words of Abijah, and his ways and works, have been written very diligently in the book of Iddo, the prophet.
2 Chronicles 14:1	Then Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the City of David. And his son, Asa, reigned in his place. During his days, the land was quiet for ten years.
2 Chronicles 14:2	Now Asa did what was good and pleasing in the sight of his God. And he overturned the altars of foreign worship, and the high places.
2 Chronicles 14:3	And he broke apart the statues, and he cut down the sacred groves.
2 Chronicles 14:4	And he instructed Judah that they should seek the Lord, the God of their fathers, and that they should carry out the law and all the commandments.
2 Chronicles 14:5	And he took away, from all the cities of Judah, the altars and the shrines. And he reigned in peace.
2 Chronicles 14:6	Also, he built fortified cities in Judah. For it was quiet, and in his time no wars had arisen. For the Lord was generously granting peace.
2 Chronicles 14:7	Then he said to Judah: “Let us build these cities, and strengthen them with walls, and fortify them with towers and gates and bars, while all things are at rest from wars. For we have sought the Lord, the God of our fathers, and he has granted to us peace on every side.” And so they built, and there was nothing to impede them from building.
2 Chronicles 14:8	Now Asa had in his army three hundred thousand men of Judah, carrying shields and spears, and truly, of Benjamin, two hundred eighty thousand men with shields and bows. All of these were very valiant men.
2 Chronicles 14:9	Then Zerah, the Ethiopian, went forth against them with his army of one million men, and three hundred chariots. And he approached as far as Mareshah.
2 Chronicles 14:10	And Asa traveled to meet him, and he set up a battle line for the war in the Valley of Zephathah, which is near Mareshah.
2 Chronicles 14:11	And he called upon the Lord God, and he said: “O Lord, there is no difference to you, whether you assist by few, or by many. Help us, O Lord our God. For having faith in you and in your name, we have gone forth against this multitude. O Lord, you are our God. Do not allow man to prevail against you.”
2 Chronicles 14:12	And so the Lord terrified the Ethiopians before Asa and Judah. And the Ethiopians fled.
2 Chronicles 14:13	And Asa, and the people who were with him, pursued them as far as Gerar. And the Ethiopians fell, even unto utter destruction, for the Lord was striking, and his army was battling, and they were destroyed. Therefore, they took many spoils.
2 Chronicles 14:14	And they struck all the cities surrounding Gerar. For indeed, a great fear had overwhelmed everyone. And they despoiled the cities, and they carried away much plunder.
2 Chronicles 14:15	Then too, destroying the fencing for the sheep, they took an innumerable multitude of cattle and camels. And they returned to Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 15:1	Now Azariah, the son of Oded, had the Spirit of God within him.
2 Chronicles 15:2	And he went out to meet Asa, and he said to him: “Listen to me, Asa and all of Judah and Benjamin. The Lord is with you, because you have been with him. If you seek him, you will find him. But if you abandon him, he will abandon you.
2 Chronicles 15:3	Then many days will pass in Israel, apart from the true God, and apart from a learned priest, and apart from the law.
2 Chronicles 15:4	And when, in their anguish, they will have returned to the Lord, the God of Israel, and will have sought him, they shall find him.
2 Chronicles 15:5	In that time, there will be no peace for those who depart and those who enter. Instead, there will be terror on every side, among all the inhabitants of the lands.
2 Chronicles 15:6	For nation will fight against nation, and city against city. For the Lord will disturb them with every anguish.
2 Chronicles 15:7	But as for you, be strengthened, and do not let your hands be weakened. For there will be a reward for your work.”
2 Chronicles 15:8	And when Asa had heard these particular words, and the prophecy of the prophet Azariah, the son of Oded, he was strengthened, and he took away the idols from the entire land of Judah, and from Benjamin, and from the cities that he had seized of mount Ephraim, and he dedicated the altar of the Lord, which was before the portico of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 15:9	And he gathered together all of Judah and Benjamin, and with them the new arrivals from Ephraim and Manasseh and Simeon. For many had fled to him from Israel, seeing that the Lord his God was with him.
2 Chronicles 15:10	And when they had arrived in Jerusalem, in the third month, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa,
2 Chronicles 15:11	they immolated to the Lord on that day, from the best of the spoils and from the plunder that they had brought: seven hundred oxen and seven thousand rams.
2 Chronicles 15:12	And he entered, according to custom, in order to confirm the covenant, so that they would seek the Lord, the God of their fathers, with their whole heart and with their whole soul.
2 Chronicles 15:13	“But if anyone,” he said, “will not seek the Lord, the God of Israel, let him die, from the least even to the greatest, from man even to woman.”
2 Chronicles 15:14	And they swore to the Lord, with a great voice, in jubilation, and with the blare of trumpets, and with the sound of horns,
2 Chronicles 15:15	all who were in Judah swore with a curse. For with all their heart they swore, and with all their will they sought and found him. And the Lord granted rest on all sides to them.
2 Chronicles 15:16	Then too, Maacah, the mother of king Asa, he deposed from the august authority, because she had made an idol of Priapus within a sacred grove. And he entirely crushed it, breaking it into pieces, and he burned it at the torrent Kidron.
2 Chronicles 15:17	But some high places were left in Israel. Even so, the heart of Asa was perfect during all his days.
2 Chronicles 15:18	And whatever his father or he himself had vowed, he brought into the house of the Lord: silver and gold, and vessels for various uses.
2 Chronicles 15:19	Truly, there was no war, until the thirty-fifth year of the kingdom of Asa.
2 Chronicles 16:1	Then, in the thirty-sixth year of his reign, Baasha, the king of Israel, ascended against Judah. And he encircled Ramah with a wall, so that no one could safely depart or enter from the kingdom of Asa.
2 Chronicles 16:2	Therefore, Asa brought forth silver and gold from the treasuries of the house of the Lord, and from the treasuries of the king. And he sent to Benhadad, the king of Syria, who was living in Damascus, saying:
2 Chronicles 16:3	“There is a pact between me and you. Also, my father and your father had an agreement. For this reason, I have sent silver and gold to you, so that you may break the pact that you have with Baasha, the king of Israel, and so that you may cause him to withdraw from me.”
2 Chronicles 16:4	And when he verified this, Benhadad sent the leaders of his armies to the cities of Israel. And they struck Ahion, and Dan, and Abelmaim, and all the walled cities of Naphtali.
2 Chronicles 16:5	And when Baasha had heard of it, he ceased to build around Ramah, and he interrupted his work.
2 Chronicles 16:6	Then king Asa took all of Judah, and they carried away from Ramah the stones and the wood that Baasha had prepared for the things to be built. And he built up Gibeah and Mizpah with them.
2 Chronicles 16:7	In that time, the prophet Hanani went to Asa, the king of Judah, and he said to him: “Because you have faith in the king of Syria, and not in the Lord your God, therefore the army of the king of Syria has escaped from your hand.
2 Chronicles 16:8	Were not the Ethiopians and the Libyans much more numerous in chariots, and horsemen, and an exceedingly great multitude? Yet when you believed in the Lord, he delivered them into your hand.
2 Chronicles 16:9	For the eyes of the Lord contemplate the entire earth, and offer fortitude to those who believe in him with a perfect heart. And so, you acted foolishly. And so, because of this, from the present time wars shall rise up against you.”
2 Chronicles 16:10	And Asa was angry against the seer, and he ordered him to be sent into prison. For indeed, he had been very indignant over this. And in that time, he put to death very many of the people.
2 Chronicles 16:11	But the works of Asa, the first and the last, have been written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
2 Chronicles 16:12	And now Asa became ill, in the thirty-ninth year of his reign, with a very severe pain in his feet. And yet, in his infirmity, he did not seek the Lord. Instead, he trusted more in the skill of physicians.
2 Chronicles 16:13	And he slept with his fathers. And he died in the forty-first year of his reign.
2 Chronicles 16:14	And they buried him in his own sepulcher, which he had made for himself in the City of David. And they placed him upon his bed, full of the aromatics and ointments of courtesans, which were composed with the skill of the perfumers. And they burned these over him with very great ostentation.
2 Chronicles 17:1	Then Jehoshaphat, his son, reigned in his place. And he grew strong against Israel.
2 Chronicles 17:2	And he appointed numbers of soldiers in all the cities of Judah that had been fortified with walls. And he placed garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim that his father Asa had seized.
2 Chronicles 17:3	And the Lord was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first ways of his father, David. And he did not trust in the Baals,
2 Chronicles 17:4	but in the God of his father. And he advanced in his precepts, and not according to the sins of Israel.
2 Chronicles 17:5	And the Lord confirmed the kingdom in his hand. And all of Judah gave gifts to Jehoshaphat. And innumerable riches were brought to him, and much glory.
2 Chronicles 17:6	And when his heart had taken courage because of the ways of the Lord, he now also took away the high places and the sacred groves from Judah.
2 Chronicles 17:7	Then, in the third year of his reign, he sent Benhail, and Obadiah, and Zechariah, and Nethanel, and Micaiah, from among his leaders, so that they might teach in the cites of Judah.
2 Chronicles 17:8	And with them were the Levites Shemaiah and Nethaniah and Zebadiah, and also Asahel and Shemiramoth and Jehonathan, and the Levites Adonijah and Tobijah and Tobadonijah. And with them were the priests Elishama and Jehoram.
2 Chronicles 17:9	And they were teaching the people in Judah, having with them the book of the law of the Lord. And they were traveling through all the cities of Judah, and were instructing the people.
2 Chronicles 17:10	And so, the fear of the Lord fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands which were around Judah. And they did not dare to make war against Jehoshaphat.
2 Chronicles 17:11	Moreover, the Philistines carried gifts to Jehoshaphat, and a tribute in silver. Also, the Arabians brought cattle: seven thousand seven hundred rams, and the same number of he-goats.
2 Chronicles 17:12	Therefore, Jehoshaphat increased and was magnified, even on high. And in Judah, he built houses in the likeness of towers, and walled cities.
2 Chronicles 17:13	And he prepared many works in the cities of Judah. Also, there were men experienced in warfare in Jerusalem,
2 Chronicles 17:14	and this is the number of them, by each of the houses and families. In Judah, the leader of the army was Adnah, the commander; and with him were three hundred thousand very experienced men.
2 Chronicles 17:15	After him, Jehohanan was the leader; and with him were two hundred eighty thousand.
2 Chronicles 17:16	Also after him, there was Amasiah, the son of Zichri, who was consecrated to the Lord; and with him were two hundred thousand strong men.
2 Chronicles 17:17	Following him, there was Eliada, who was experienced in battle; and with him were two hundred thousand, holding bow and shield.
2 Chronicles 17:18	Then too, after him, there was Jehozabad; and with him were one hundred eighty thousand lightly-armed solders.
2 Chronicles 17:19	All these were at the hand of the king, aside from the others, whom he had positioned in the walled cities, in all of Judah.
2 Chronicles 18:1	Therefore, Jehoshaphat was wealthy and very famous, and he was joined by affinity to Ahab.
2 Chronicles 18:2	And after some years, he descended to him in Samaria. And upon his arrival, Ahab slaughtered very many sheep and oxen, for him and for the people who had arrived with him. And he persuaded him that he should ascend against Ramoth Gilead.
2 Chronicles 18:3	And Ahab, the king of Israel, said to Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, “Come with me to Ramoth Gilead.” And he answered him: “As I am, so also are you. As your people are, so also are my people. And we will be with you in war.”
2 Chronicles 18:4	And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, “Consult, I beg you, the word of the Lord for the present circumstances.”
2 Chronicles 18:5	And so the king of Israel gathered together four hundred men of the prophets, and he said to them: “Should we go to war against Ramoth Gilead, or should we be quieted?” But they said, “Ascend, and God will deliver into the hand of the king.”
2 Chronicles 18:6	And Jehoshaphat said, “Is there not a prophet of the Lord here, so that we may inquire of him as well?”
2 Chronicles 18:7	And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat: “There is one man, from whom we would be able to ask the will of the Lord. But I hate him, for he never prophesies good to me, but at all times evil. And it is Micaiah, the son of Imlah.” And Jehoshaphat said, “You should not speak in this manner, O king.”
2 Chronicles 18:8	Therefore, the king of Israel called one of the eunuchs, and said to him: “Quickly, summon Micaiah, the son of Imlah.”
2 Chronicles 18:9	Now the king of Israel, and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, were both sitting upon their thrones, clothed in royal vestments. And they were sitting in an open area, beside the gate of Samaria. And all the prophets were prophesying before them.
2 Chronicles 18:10	Truly, Zedekiah, the son of Chenaanah, made for himself horns of iron, and he said: “Thus says the Lord: With these, you shall threaten Syria, until you crush it.”
2 Chronicles 18:11	And all the prophets prophesied similarly, and they said: “Ascend against Ramoth Gilead, and you shall prosper, and the Lord will deliver them into the hand of the king.”
2 Chronicles 18:12	Then the messenger who had gone to summon Micaiah said to him: “Lo, the words of all the prophets, with one mouth, announce good to the king. Therefore, I ask you that you not dissent from them in your word, and that you speak prosperity.”
2 Chronicles 18:13	And Micaiah responded to him, “As the Lord lives, whatever my God will say to me, the same shall I speak.”
2 Chronicles 18:14	Therefore, he went to the king. And the king said to him, “Micaiah, should we go to war against Ramoth Gilead, or should we be quieted?” And he responded to him: “Ascend. For everything will come to prosperity, and the enemies will be delivered into your hands.”
2 Chronicles 18:15	And the king said, “Again and again, I bind you by an oath, so that you will not speak to me except what is true in the name of the Lord!”
2 Chronicles 18:16	Then he said: “I saw all of Israel scattered amid the mountains, like sheep without a shepherd. And the Lord said: ‘These have no masters. Let each one return in peace to his own house.’ ”
2 Chronicles 18:17	And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat: “Did I not tell you that this one would not prophesy to me anything good, but only what is evil?”
2 Chronicles 18:18	Then he said: “Therefore, listen to the word of the Lord. I saw the Lord sitting upon his throne, and the entire army of heaven was standing beside him, on the right and on the left.
2 Chronicles 18:19	And the Lord said: ‘Who will deceive Ahab, the king of Israel, so that he may ascend and fall at Ramoth Gilead?’ And when one spoke in one way, and another in another way,
2 Chronicles 18:20	there came forward a spirit, and he stood before the Lord and said, ‘I will deceive him.’ And the Lord said to him, ‘In what way will you deceive him?’
2 Chronicles 18:21	And he responded, ‘I will go forth, and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.’ And the Lord said: ‘You will deceive and prevail. Go forth and do so.’
2 Chronicles 18:22	Therefore now, behold: the Lord gave a lying spirit to the mouth of all your prophets, and the Lord has spoken evil about you.”
2 Chronicles 18:23	Then Zedekiah, the son of Chenaanah, approached, and he struck Micaiah on the jaw, and he said: “In what way did the Spirit of the Lord depart from me, so that he would speak to you?”
2 Chronicles 18:24	And Micaiah said: “You yourself shall see it, in that day, when you will enter a room within a room, so that you may be hidden.”
2 Chronicles 18:25	Then the king of Israel instructed, saying: “Take Micaiah, and lead him to Amon, the leader of the city, and to Joash, the son of Amalech.
2 Chronicles 18:26	And you shall say: ‘Thus says the king: Send this man to prison, and give to him a little bread and a little water, until I return in peace.’ ”
2 Chronicles 18:27	And Micaiah said, “If you will have returned in peace, the Lord has not spoken by me.” And he said, “May all the people listen.”
2 Chronicles 18:28	And so, the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, ascended against Ramoth Gilead.
2 Chronicles 18:29	And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat: “I will change my clothing, and in this way I will go into battle. But you should be clothed in your own garments.” And the king of Israel, having changed his clothing, went to war.
2 Chronicles 18:30	Now the king of Syria had instructed the commanders of his horsemen, saying, “You shall not fight against the least or the greatest, but only against the king of Israel.”
2 Chronicles 18:31	And so, when the leaders of the horsemen had seen Jehoshaphat, they said, “This one is the king of Israel.” And while fighting, they surrounded him. But he cried out to the Lord, and he assisted him, and he turned them away from him.
2 Chronicles 18:32	For when the commanders of the horsemen had seen that he was not the king of Israel, they left him.
2 Chronicles 18:33	Then it happened that one of the people shot an arrow indiscriminately, and it struck the king of Israel between the neck and the shoulder. And so he said to his chariot driver: “Turn your hand, and lead me away from the battle line. For I have been wounded.”
2 Chronicles 18:34	And the fight ended on that day. But the king of Israel was standing in his chariot facing the Syrians, even until evening. And he died when the sun set.
2 Chronicles 19:1	Then Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, returned in peace to his house in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 19:2	And the seer Jehu, the son of Hanani, met him, and said to him: “You offer assistance to the impious, and you are joined in friendship with those who hate the Lord. And for this reason, you certainly deserve the wrath of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 19:3	But good works have been found in you. For you have taken away the sacred groves from the land of Judah. And you have prepared your heart, so as to seek the Lord, the God of your fathers.”
2 Chronicles 19:4	Then Jehoshaphat lived in Jerusalem. And again he went out to the people, from Beersheba as far as mount Ephraim. And he called them back to the Lord, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 19:5	And he appointed judges of the land, in all the fortified cities of Judah, in each place.
2 Chronicles 19:6	And instructing the judges, he said: “Pay attention to what you are doing. For you exercise judgment, not of man, but of the Lord. And whatever you will have judged, it will come back to you.
2 Chronicles 19:7	Let the fear of the Lord be with you, and do all things with diligence. For there is no iniquity with the Lord our God, nor respect of persons, nor desire for gifts.”
2 Chronicles 19:8	Jehoshaphat also appointed Levites and priests and leaders of families, out of Israel, in Jerusalem, so that they might judge the judgment and purpose of the Lord for its inhabitants.
2 Chronicles 19:9	And he instructed them, saying, “So shall you act: faithfully, in the fear of the Lord, and with a perfect heart.
2 Chronicles 19:10	Every case that will come to you from your brothers, who live in their cities, between kindred and kindred, wherever there is a question concerning law, commandment, ceremonies, or justifications, reveal it to them, so that they may not sin against the Lord, and so that wrath may not overwhelm you and your brothers. Then, by acting in this way, you will not sin.
2 Chronicles 19:11	But Amariah, a priest and your high priest, shall preside over those things which pertain to God. Then Zebadiah, the son of Ishmael, who is a ruler in the house of Judah, shall be over those works that pertain to the office of the king. And you have before you the Levites as teachers. Be strengthened and act diligently, and the Lord will be with you for what is good.”
2 Chronicles 20:1	After these things, the sons of Moab, and the sons of Ammon, and with them some from the Ammonites, gathered together so that they might fight against him.
2 Chronicles 20:2	And messengers arrived and reported to Jehoshaphat, saying: “A great multitude has arrived against you, from those places that are across the sea, and from Syria. And behold, they are standing together at Hazazon-tamar, which is Engedi.”
2 Chronicles 20:3	Then Jehoshaphat, being terrified with fear, gave himself entirely to petitioning the Lord, and he proclaimed a fast for all of Judah.
2 Chronicles 20:4	And Judah gathered together to pray to the Lord. Moreover, everyone from their cities came to beseech him.
2 Chronicles 20:5	And when Jehoshaphat had stood up in the midst of the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of the Lord, before the new atrium,
2 Chronicles 20:6	he said: “O Lord, God of our fathers, you are God in heaven, and you rule over all the kingdoms of the Gentiles. In your hand is strength and power, and no one is able to withstand you.
2 Chronicles 20:7	Did not you, our God, put to death all the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel? And you gave it to the offspring of your friend Abraham, for all time.
2 Chronicles 20:8	And they lived in it. And they built a Sanctuary to your name in it, saying:
2 Chronicles 20:9	‘If evils will have fallen upon us, the sword of judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we will stand in your sight before this house, in which your name is invoked, and we will cry out to you in our tribulations. And you will heed us and accomplish our salvation.’
2 Chronicles 20:10	Now therefore, behold the sons of Ammon, and of Moab, and mount Seir, through whose lands you did not permit Israel to cross when they were departing from Egypt. Instead, they turned aside from them, and they did not put them to death.
2 Chronicles 20:11	They are doing the contrary, and they are striving to cast us from the possession which you delivered to us.
2 Chronicles 20:12	Therefore, will you, our God, not judge them? Certainly, in us there is not enough strength so that we would be able to withstand this multitude, which rushes against us. But although we do not know what we ought to do, we have this alone remaining, that we direct our eyes to you.”
2 Chronicles 20:13	Truly, all of Judah was standing before the Lord with their little ones and wives and children.
2 Chronicles 20:14	But there was Jahaziel, the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite from the sons of Asaph, upon whom the Spirit of the Lord went, in the midst of the crowd.
2 Chronicles 20:15	And he said: “Pay attention, all of Judah, and you who live in Jerusalem, and you, king Jehoshaphat. Thus says the Lord to you: Do not be afraid. Neither should you be dismayed by this multitude. For the fight is not yours, but God’s.
2 Chronicles 20:16	Tomorrow, you shall descend against them. For they will ascend along the incline named Ziz, and will find them at the summit of the torrent, which is opposite the wilderness of Jeruel.
2 Chronicles 20:17	It will not be you who will fight. Instead, only stand with confidence, and you will see the help of the Lord over you, O Judah and Jerusalem. Do not be afraid. Neither should you be dismayed. Tomorrow you shall go forth against them, and the Lord will be with you.”
2 Chronicles 20:18	Then Jehoshaphat, and Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell prone on the ground before the Lord, and they adored him.
2 Chronicles 20:19	And the Levites from the sons of Kohath, and from the sons of Korah, were praising the Lord, the God of Israel, with a great voice, on high.
2 Chronicles 20:20	And when they had risen up in the morning, they went out through the desert of Tekoa. And as they were setting out, Jehoshaphat, standing in their midst, said: “Listen to me, men of Judah and all inhabitants of Jerusalem. Believe in the Lord your God, and you will be secure. Believe in his prophets, and everything will come to prosperity.”
2 Chronicles 20:21	And he gave counsel to the people. And he appointed the singing men of the Lord, so that they would praise him by their companies, and so that they would go before the army, and with one voice say: “Confess to the Lord. For his mercy is eternal.”
2 Chronicles 20:22	And when they had begun to sing praises, the Lord turned their ambushes upon themselves, that is, those of the sons of Ammon, and of Moab, and of mount Seir, who had gone forth so that they might fight against Judah. And they were struck down.
2 Chronicles 20:23	For the sons of Ammon and of Moab rose up against the inhabitants of mount Seir, so that they might slay and destroy them. And when they had perpetrated this work, now also turning upon themselves, they cut one another with wounds.
2 Chronicles 20:24	Then, when Judah had gone to the high point that looks out toward the desert, they saw, from far away, the entire wide region filled with dead bodies. Neither was there anyone who was left alive and had been able to escape death.
2 Chronicles 20:25	Therefore, Jehoshaphat went, and all the people with him, in order to take away the spoils of the dead. And they found, among the dead bodies, diverse equipment, and also garments, and very precious vessels. And they despoiled these, to such an extent that they were unable to carry everything. Neither could they, over three days, take away the spoils because of the magnitude of the plunder.
2 Chronicles 20:26	Then, on the fourth day, they were gathered together in the Valley of Blessing. For they had blessed the Lord there, and therefore they called that place the Valley of Blessing, even to the present day.
2 Chronicles 20:27	And every man of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, returned, with Jehoshaphat before them, to Jerusalem, with great rejoicing. For the Lord had granted to them gladness concerning their enemies.
2 Chronicles 20:28	And they entered into Jerusalem with psalteries, and harps, and trumpets, into the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 20:29	Then the fear of the Lord fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands, when they had heard that the Lord had fought against the enemies of Israel.
2 Chronicles 20:30	And the kingdom of Jehoshaphat was quiet. And God granted to him peace on all sides.
2 Chronicles 20:31	And so Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah. And he was thirty-five years old when he had begun to reign. Then he reigned for twenty-five years in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Azubah, the daughter of Shilhi.
2 Chronicles 20:32	And he walked in the way of his father, Asa, and he did not decline from it, doing the things that were pleasing before the Lord.
2 Chronicles 20:33	Yet truly, he did not take away the high places, and the people still had not directed their heart to the Lord, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 20:34	But the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, the first and the last, have been written in the words of Jehu, the son of Hanani, which he digested into the books of the kings of Israel.
2 Chronicles 20:35	After these things, Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, formed a friendship with Ahaziah, the king of Israel, whose works were very impious.
2 Chronicles 20:36	And he was a partner in the making of ships, which would go to Tarshish. And they made the fleet at Eziongeber.
2 Chronicles 20:37	Then Eliezer, the son of Dodavahu, from Mareshah, prophesied to Jehoshaphat, saying: “Because you have made a pact with Ahaziah, the Lord has struck your works, and the ships have been broken, and they have not been able to go to Tarshish.”
2 Chronicles 21:1	Then Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and he was buried with them in the City of David. And his son, Jehoram, reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 21:2	And he had brothers, sons of Jehoshaphat: Azariah, and Jehiel, and Zechariah, and Azariah, and Michael, and Shephatiah. All these were sons of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah.
2 Chronicles 21:3	And their father gave to them many gifts of silver, and gold, and valuables, with very fortified cities in Judah. But the kingdom he handed on to Jehoram, because he was the firstborn.
2 Chronicles 21:4	Therefore, Jehoram rose up over the kingdom of his father. And when he had established himself, he killed with the sword all his brothers, and certain ones from the leaders of Israel.
2 Chronicles 21:5	Jehoram was thirty-two years old when he had begun to reign. And he reigned for eight years in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 21:6	And he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, just as the house of Ahab had done. For his wife was a daughter of Ahab, and he did evil in the sight of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 21:7	But the Lord was not willing to destroy the house of David, because of the covenant that he had formed with him, and because he had promised that he would provide a lamp to him, and to his sons, for all time.
2 Chronicles 21:8	In those days, Edom rebelled, so as not to be subject to Judah, and they appointed for themselves a king.
2 Chronicles 21:9	And when Jehoram had gone across with his leaders, and all the horsemen who were with him, he arose in the night, and struck the Edomites (who had surrounded him), and all the commanders of his horsemen.
2 Chronicles 21:10	Even so, Edom rebelled, so as not to be under the authority of Judah, even to this day. Also at that time, Libnah withdrew, so as not to be under his hand. For he had forsaken the Lord, the God of his fathers.
2 Chronicles 21:11	Moreover, he also constructed high places in the cities of Judah. And he caused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to fornicate, and Judah to prevaricate.
2 Chronicles 21:12	Then letters were conveyed to him from the prophet Elijah, in which it was written: “Thus says the Lord, the God of David, your father: Because you have not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat, your father, nor in the ways of Asa, the king of Judah,
2 Chronicles 21:13	but instead you have advanced along the paths of the kings of Israel, and you have caused Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to fornicate, imitating the fornication of the house of Ahab, and moreover, you have killed your brothers, the house of your father, who are better than you:
2 Chronicles 21:14	behold, the Lord will strike you with a great plague, with all your people, and your sons and wives, and all your substance.
2 Chronicles 21:15	And you shall be sickened by a very grievous disease of your bowels, until your inner organs depart, little by little, each day.”
2 Chronicles 21:16	Therefore, the Lord stirred up, against Jehoram, the spirit of the Philistines, and of the Arabians, who are along the borders of the Ethiopians.
2 Chronicles 21:17	And they ascended into the land of Judah. And they laid waste to it. And they despoiled all the substance that was found in the house of the king, including even his sons and wives. Neither did there remain for him any son, except Jehoahaz, who was the youngest born.
2 Chronicles 21:18	And in addition to all these things, the Lord struck him with an incurable disease of the bowels.
2 Chronicles 21:19	And as day followed after day, and the space of time turned, the course of two years was completed. And after having been wasted by a long consumption, so much so that even his inner organs were discharged, the disease ended along with his life. And so he died of a very grievous illness. And the people did not make a funeral for him, according to the custom of burning, as they had done for his ancestors.
2 Chronicles 21:20	He was thirty-two years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for eight years in Jerusalem. And he did not walk uprightly. And they buried him in the City of David, yet truly, not in the sepulcher of the kings.
2 Chronicles 22:1	Then the inhabitants of Jerusalem appointed his youngest son, Ahaziah, as king in his place. For the robbers of the Arabians, who had fallen upon the camp, had put to death all those who were greater by birth before him. And so Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram, reigned as king of Judah.
2 Chronicles 22:2	Ahaziah was forty-two years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for one year in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother was Athaliah, the daughter of Omri.
2 Chronicles 22:3	But he too went forth in the ways of the house of Ahab. For his mother impelled him to act impiously.
2 Chronicles 22:4	And so he did evil in the sight of the Lord, just as the house of Ahab did. For after the death of his father, they were counselors to him, to his destruction.
2 Chronicles 22:5	And he walked in their counsels. And he went with Joram, the son of Ahab, the king of Israel, to war against Hazael, the king of Syria, at Ramoth Gilead. And the Syrians wounded Joram.
2 Chronicles 22:6	And he returned, so that he might be cured at Jezreel. For he had received many wounds in the above-stated battle. And so Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram, the king of Judah, descended, so that he might visit Joram, the son of Ahab, at Jezreel, while he was ill.
2 Chronicles 22:7	Indeed, it was the will of God against Ahaziah that he would go to Joram, and when he had gone, that he also would go out with him against Jehu, the son of Nimshi, whom the Lord had anointed to destroy the house of Ahab.
2 Chronicles 22:8	Therefore, when Jehu was overthrowing the house of Ahab, he found the leaders of Judah, with the sons of the brothers of Ahaziah, who were ministering to him, and he put them to death.
2 Chronicles 22:9	Also, while he himself was seeking Ahaziah, he found him to be hiding in Samaria. And having been led to him, he killed him. And they buried him, because he was the son of Jehoshaphat, who had sought the Lord with all his heart. But there was no longer any hope that someone from the stock of Ahaziah would reign.
2 Chronicles 22:10	For indeed, his mother, Athaliah, seeing that her son had died, rose up and killed the entire royal stock of the house of Jehoram.
2 Chronicles 22:11	But Jehosheba, the daughter of the king, took Joash, the son of Ahaziah, and stole him from the midst the king’s sons when they were being slain. And she hid him with his nurse in a bedroom. Now Jehosheba, the one who had hidden him, was the daughter of king Jehoram, and the wife of the high priest Jehoiada, and the sister of Ahaziah. And because of this, Athaliah did not kill him.
2 Chronicles 22:12	Therefore, he was with them, hidden in the house of God, for six years, while Athaliah reigned over the land.
2 Chronicles 23:1	Then in the seventh year, Jehoiada having been strengthened, he took the centurions, namely, Azariah, the son of Jeroham, and Ishmael, the son of Jehohanan, and also Azariah, the son of Obed, and Maaseiah, the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat, the son of Zichri, and he formed a pact with them.
2 Chronicles 23:2	And traveling through Judah, they gathered together the Levites from all of the cities of Judah, and the leaders of the families of Israel, and they went to Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 23:3	Then the entire multitude formed a pact with the king, in the house of God. And Jehoiada said to them: “Behold, the son of the king shall reign, just as the Lord has said concerning the sons of David.
2 Chronicles 23:4	Therefore, this is the word that you shall do:
2 Chronicles 23:5	One third part of you who arrive on the Sabbath, priests, and Levites, and porters, shall be at the gates. Truly, one third part shall be at the house of the king. And one third shall be at the gate which is called the Foundation. Yet truly, let all the remainder of the common people be in the courts of the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 23:6	Let no one else enter into the house of the Lord, except the priests, and those from the Levites who are ministering. These alone may enter, for they have been sanctified. And let all the remainder of the common people observe the watches of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 23:7	Then let the Levites encircle the king, each one having his weapons. And if anyone else will have entered into the temple, let him be slain. And may they be with the king, both entering and departing.”
2 Chronicles 23:8	Then the Levites, and all of Judah, acted in accord with all that the high priest Jehoiada had instructed. And each of them took the men who were under him, and who were arriving by the course of the Sabbath, with those who had fulfilled the Sabbath and who were about to depart. For indeed the high priest Jehoiada had not permitted the companies to depart, which were accustomed to replace one another each week.
2 Chronicles 23:9	And Jehoiada, the priest, gave to the centurions the lances and round shields and crescent shields of king David, which he had dedicated in the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 23:10	And he positioned all the people, holding short swords, from the right part of the temple to the left part of the temple, before the altar and the temple, all around the king.
2 Chronicles 23:11	And they led out the son of the king. And they imposed the diadem on him, and the testimony. And they gave him the law to hold in his hand. And they appointed him as king. Also, the high priest Jehoiada and his sons anointed him. And they prayed for him, and said, “May the king live!”
2 Chronicles 23:12	And when Athaliah had heard it, specifically the sound of running and the praising of the king, she entered to the people in the temple of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 23:13	And when she had seen the king standing upon the step at the entrance, and the leaders and companies around him, and all the people of the land rejoicing, and sounding the trumpets, and playing on instruments of various kinds, and the voice of those who were praising, she tore her garments, and she said: “Treason! Treason!”
2 Chronicles 23:14	Then the high priest Jehoiada, going out to the centurions and to the leaders of the army, said to them: “Lead her away, beyond the borders of the temple. And let her be put to death outside, with the sword.” And the priest instructed that she should not be killed in the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 23:15	And they laid hands on her neck. And when she had entered the gate for the horses at the king’s house, they put her to death there.
2 Chronicles 23:16	Then Jehoiada formed a covenant between himself and the entire people, and the king, so that they would be the people of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 23:17	And so, all the people entered into the house of Baal, and they destroyed it. And they broke apart his altars and idols. Also, they put to death Mattan, the priest of Baal, before the altars.
2 Chronicles 23:18	Then Jehoiada appointed overseers in the house of the Lord, under the hands of the priests and Levites, whom David had distributed to the house of the Lord so that they might offer holocausts to the Lord, just as it was written in the law of Moses, with gladness and singing, in accord with the disposition of David.
2 Chronicles 23:19	Also, he appointed porters at the gates of the house of the Lord, so that whoever was unclean for any reason would not enter.
2 Chronicles 23:20	And he took the centurions, and the most valiant men, and the leaders of the people, and all the common people of the land, and they set out to descend to the king, from the house of the Lord, and to enter through the middle of the upper gate, to the house of the king. And they placed him on the royal throne.
2 Chronicles 23:21	And all the people of the land were rejoicing, and the city was quieted. But Athaliah was slain with the sword.
2 Chronicles 24:1	Joash was seven years old when he had begun to reign. And he reigned for forty years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Zibiah, from Beersheba.
2 Chronicles 24:2	And he did what is good before the Lord during all the days of Jehoiada, the priest.
2 Chronicles 24:3	Now Jehoiada gave to him two wives, from whom he conceived sons and daughters.
2 Chronicles 24:4	After these things, it pleased Joash to repair the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 24:5	And he gathered together the priests and Levites, and he said to them: “Go out to the cities of Judah, and collect from all of Israel money to repair the surfaces of the temple of your God, throughout each year. And do this promptly.” But the Levites acted negligently.
2 Chronicles 24:6	And the king summoned Jehoiada, the leader, and he said to him: “Why was there no concern with you, so that you would compel the Levites to bring, from Judah and from Jerusalem, the money that was appointed by Moses, the servant of the Lord, so as to bring it, from the entire multitude of Israel, to the tabernacle of the testimony?
2 Chronicles 24:7	For that very impious woman Athaliah and her sons have destroyed the house of God, and they have adorned the shrine of Baal from all the things that had been sanctified in the temple of the Lord.”
2 Chronicles 24:8	Therefore, the king instructed, and they made an ark. And they placed it beside the gate of the house of the Lord, on the outside.
2 Chronicles 24:9	And they proclaimed, in Judah and Jerusalem, that each one should bring to the Lord the money that Moses, the servant of God, appointed in the desert, concerning all of Israel.
2 Chronicles 24:10	And all the leaders and all the people rejoiced. And upon entering, they together took and placed so much into the ark of the Lord that it was filled.
2 Chronicles 24:11	And when it was time for them to bring the ark before the king by the hands of the Levites, for they saw that there was much money, the scribe of the king, and the one whom the high priest had appointed, entered. And they poured out the money that was in the ark. Then they carried the ark back to its place. And they did this on each day. And an immense sum of money was gathered.
2 Chronicles 24:12	And the king and Jehoiada gave it to those who were in charge of the works of the house of the Lord. Then with it they hired hewers of stone, and artisans of every kind, so that they might repair the house of the Lord, and also so that the works of iron and of brass, which had begun to fall, would be reinforced.
2 Chronicles 24:13	And those who were hired were working industriously. And the breach in the walls was healed by their hands. And they returned the house of the Lord to a pristine state. And they caused it stand firm.
2 Chronicles 24:14	And when they had completed all the works, they brought the remaining part of the money before the king and Jehoiada. And from it, the vessels of the temple were made, for the ministry and for the holocausts, including bowls and other vessels of gold and silver. And holocausts were being offered in the house of the Lord continually, during all the days of Jehoiada.
2 Chronicles 24:15	But Jehoiada was old and full of days. And he died when he was one hundred thirty years old.
2 Chronicles 24:16	And they buried him in the City of David, with the kings, because he had done good to Israel and to his house.
2 Chronicles 24:17	Then, after Jehoiada passed away, the leaders of Judah entered and reverenced the king. And he was enticed by their obsequiousness, and so he acquiesced to them.
2 Chronicles 24:18	And they abandoned the temple of the Lord, the God of their fathers, and they served sacred groves and graven images. And wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem because of this sin.
2 Chronicles 24:19	And he sent prophets to them, so that they might return to the Lord. And though they were offering testimony, they were not willing to listen to them.
2 Chronicles 24:20	And so the Spirit of God clothed Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada the priest. And he stood in the sight of the people, and he said to them: “Thus says the Lord God: Why have you transgressed the precept of the Lord, though it was not to your benefit, and why have you abandoned the Lord, so that he would then abandon you?”
2 Chronicles 24:21	And gathering together against him, they stoned him, beside the place of the king, in the atrium of the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 24:22	And king Joash did not remember the mercy with which Jehoiada, his father, had treated him; instead he put to death his son. And as he was dying, he said: “May the Lord see and take account.”
2 Chronicles 24:23	And when a year had turned, the army of Syria ascended against him. And they went to Judah and Jerusalem. And they put to death all the leaders of the people. And they sent all the spoils to the king of Damascus.
2 Chronicles 24:24	And although certainly there had arrived a very small number of Syrians, the Lord delivered into their hands an immense multitude. For they had forsaken the Lord, the God of their fathers. Also, against Joash they executed disgraceful judgments.
2 Chronicles 24:25	And upon departing, they left him greatly debilitated. Then his servants rose up against him, in vengeance for the blood of the son of Jehoiada the priest. And they killed him on his bed, and he died. And they buried him in the City of David, but not in the sepulchers of the kings.
2 Chronicles 24:26	Truly, those who ambushed him were Zabad, the son of an Ammonite woman named Shimeath, and Jehozabad, the son of a Moabite woman named Shimrith.
2 Chronicles 24:27	But concerning his sons, and the sum of money that had been amassed under him, and the repairing of the house of God, these things have been written more diligently in the book of kings. Then his son, Amaziah, reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 25:1	Amaziah was twenty-five years old when he had begun to reign. And he reigned for twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Jehoaddan, from Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 25:2	And he accomplished good in the sight of the Lord. Yet truly, not with a perfect heart.
2 Chronicles 25:3	And when he saw himself to be strengthened in his rule, he cut the throats of the servants who had killed his father, the king.
2 Chronicles 25:4	But he did not put to death their sons, just as it was written in the book of the law of Moses, where the Lord instructed, saying: “The fathers shall not be slain because of the sons, nor the sons because of their fathers. Instead, each one shall die for his own sin.”
2 Chronicles 25:5	And then Amaziah gathered together Judah, and he organized them by families, and tribunes, and centurions, throughout all of Judah and Benjamin. And he numbered them from twenty years old and upward. And he found three hundred thousand young men, who could go forth to battle, and who could hold spear and shield.
2 Chronicles 25:6	Also, he hired for pay from Israel one hundred thousand experienced men, for one hundred talents of silver.
2 Chronicles 25:7	Then a man of God came to him, and he said: “O king, let not the army of Israel go forth with you. For the Lord is not with Israel, nor with all the sons of Ephraim.
2 Chronicles 25:8	But if you think that a war stands by the strength of the army, God will cause you to be overwhelmed by the enemies. For indeed, it belongs to God to assist, and to put to flight.”
2 Chronicles 25:9	And Amaziah said to the man of God, “Then what will become of the one hundred talents, which I gave to the soldiers of Israel?” And the man of God responded to him, “The Lord has that from which he is able to give much more than this to you.”
2 Chronicles 25:10	And so, Amaziah separated the army, which had come to him from Ephraim, so that they would return to their place. But having become very angry against Judah, they returned to their own region.
2 Chronicles 25:11	Then Amaziah confidently led forth his people. And he went away to the Valley of the Salt Pits, and he struck down ten thousand of the sons of Seir.
2 Chronicles 25:12	And the sons of Judah captured another ten thousand of the men. And they led them to the precipice of a certain rock. And they threw them from the summit, and they were all broken apart.
2 Chronicles 25:13	But the army that Amaziah had sent away, so that they would not go with him into battle, spread out among the cities of Judah, from Samaria as far as Beth-horon. And having killed three thousand, they took away much plunder.
2 Chronicles 25:14	Truly, after the slaughter of the Edomites, and when the gods of the sons of Seir were brought, Amaziah chose them as gods for himself. And he was adoring them, and burning incense to them.
2 Chronicles 25:15	For this reason, the Lord became angry against Amaziah, and he sent a prophet to him, who would say to him, “Why have you adored gods who did not free their own people from your hand?”
2 Chronicles 25:16	And after he spoke these things, he responded to him: “Are you the counselor of the king? Be quiet! Otherwise I will put you to death.” And departing, the prophet said, “I know that God has decided to kill you, because you have done this evil, and also because you have not agreed to my counsel.”
2 Chronicles 25:17	And so Amaziah, the king of Judah, undertaking a very wicked counsel, sent to Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, the king of Israel, saying: “Come, let us see one another.”
2 Chronicles 25:18	But he sent back messengers, saying: “The thistle which is in Lebanon sent to the cedar of Lebanon, saying: ‘Give your daughter to my son as wife.’ And behold, the beasts that were in the forest of Lebanon passed through, and they trampled the thistle.
2 Chronicles 25:19	You said, ‘I struck down Edom.’ And for this reason, your heart is lifted up with pride. Settle in your own house. Why do you provoke evil against yourself, so that you may fall, and then Judah with you?”
2 Chronicles 25:20	Amaziah was not willing to listen to him, because it was the will of the Lord that he be delivered into the hands of the enemies, because of the gods of Edom.
2 Chronicles 25:21	And so Joash, the king of Israel, ascended, and they presented themselves within the sight of one another. Now Amaziah, the king of Judah, was in Beth-shemesh of Judah.
2 Chronicles 25:22	And Judah fell before Israel. And each one fled to his own tent.
2 Chronicles 25:23	Then Joash, the king of Israel, captured Amaziah, the king of Judah, the son of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, at Beth-shemesh, and he led him to Jerusalem. And he destroyed its walls, from the gate of Ephraim as far as the gate of the corner, four hundred cubits.
2 Chronicles 25:24	Also, he brought back to Samaria all the gold and silver, and all the vessels, which he had found in the house of God, and with Obededom in the treasuries of the king’s house, as well as sons for hostages.
2 Chronicles 25:25	Then Amaziah, the son of Joash, the king of Judah, lived for fifteen years after the death of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, the king of Israel.
2 Chronicles 25:26	Now the rest of the words of Amaziah, the first and the last, have been written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
2 Chronicles 25:27	And after he withdrew from the Lord, they set up an ambush against him in Jerusalem. But since he had fled into Lachish, they sent and killed him in that place.
2 Chronicles 25:28	And having carried him back upon horses, they buried him with his fathers in the City of David.
2 Chronicles 26:1	Then all the people of Judah appointed his son, Uzziah, who was sixteen years old, as king in place of his father, Amaziah.
2 Chronicles 26:2	He built up Eloth, and he restored it to the dominion of Judah. After this, the king slept with his fathers.
2 Chronicles 26:3	Uzziah was sixteen years old when he had begun to reign. And he reigned for fifty-two years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Jecoliah, from Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 26:4	And he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, in accord with all that his father, Amaziah, had done.
2 Chronicles 26:5	And he sought the Lord, during the days of Zechariah, who understood and saw God. And while he was seeking the Lord, he directed him in all things.
2 Chronicles 26:6	Indeed, he went out and fought against the Philistines. And he destroyed the wall of Gath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod. Also, he built towns in Ashdod, and among the Philistines.
2 Chronicles 26:7	And God helped him against the Philistines, and against the Arabians, who were living in Gurbaal, and against the Ammonites.
2 Chronicles 26:8	And the Ammonites weighed out gifts to Uzziah. And his name became widely known, even to the entrance of Egypt, because of his frequent victories.
2 Chronicles 26:9	And Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem, above the gate of the corner, and above the gate of the valley, and others on the same side of the wall, and he fortified them.
2 Chronicles 26:10	Then he also constructed towers in the wilderness, and dug many cisterns, because he had much cattle, both in the plains and in the starkness of the wilderness. Also, he had vineyards and dressers of vines in the mountains and at Carmel. Certainly, he was a man devoted to agriculture.
2 Chronicles 26:11	Now the army of his warriors, who would go forth to battle, was under the hand of Jeiel, the scribe, and Maaseiah, the teacher, and under the hand of Hananiah, who was among the king’s commanders.
2 Chronicles 26:12	And the entire number of the leaders, by the families of strong men, was two thousand six hundred.
2 Chronicles 26:13	And the entire army under them was three hundred and seven thousand five hundred, who were fit for war, and who fought on behalf of the king against the adversaries.
2 Chronicles 26:14	Also, Uzziah prepared for them, that is, for the entire army, shields, and spears, and helmets, and breastplates, and bows, as well as slings for the casting of stones.
2 Chronicles 26:15	And in Jerusalem, he made various kinds of machines, which he placed in the towers, and at the corners of the walls, so as to shoot arrows and large stones. And his name went forth to far away places, for the Lord was helping him and had strengthened him.
2 Chronicles 26:16	But when he had become strong, his heart was lifted up, even to his own destruction. And he neglected the Lord his God. And entering into the temple of the Lord, he intended to burn incense upon the altar of incense.
2 Chronicles 26:17	And entering immediately after him, Azariah the priest, and with him eighty priests of the Lord, very valiant men,
2 Chronicles 26:18	withstood the king, and they said: “It is not your office, Uzziah, to burn incense to the Lord; rather, it is the office of the priests, that is, of the sons of Aaron, who have been consecrated for this same ministry. Depart from the sanctuary, otherwise you will be in contempt. For this act will not be reputed to you for your glory by the Lord God.”
2 Chronicles 26:19	And Uzziah, having become angry, while holding in his hand the censer so that he might burn incense, threatened the priests. And immediately a leprosy arose on his forehead, in the sight of the priests, in the house of the Lord, at the altar of incense.
2 Chronicles 26:20	And when the high priest Azariah, and all the rest of the priests, had gazed upon him, they saw the leprosy on his forehead, and they hurried to expel him. Then too, he himself, becoming terrified, rushed to depart, because immediately he had become aware of the wound of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 26:21	And so, king Uzziah was a leper, even until the day of his death. And he lived in a separate house, being full of leprosy, because of which he had been ejected from the house of the Lord. Then Jotham, his son, directed the house of the king, and he was judging the people of the land.
2 Chronicles 26:22	But the rest of the words of Uzziah, the first and the last, were written by the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz.
2 Chronicles 26:23	And Uzziah slept with his fathers. And they buried him in the field of the royal sepulchers, because he was a leper. And Jotham, his son, reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 27:1	Jotham was twenty-five years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for sixteen years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok.
2 Chronicles 27:2	And he did what was right before the Lord, in accord with all that his father, Uzziah, had done, except that he did not enter into the temple of the Lord, and still the people were transgressing.
2 Chronicles 27:3	He improved the high gate of the house of the Lord. And he built many things upon the wall of Ophel.
2 Chronicles 27:4	Also, he built cities in the mountains of Judah, and fortresses and towers in the forests.
2 Chronicles 27:5	He fought against the king of the sons of Ammon, and he defeated them. And at that time, the sons of Ammon gave to him one hundred talents of silver, and ten thousand cor of wheat, and the same number of cor of barley. These things the sons of Ammon offered to him in the second and third year.
2 Chronicles 27:6	And Jotham was strengthened, because he had directed his way before the Lord his God.
2 Chronicles 27:7	Now the rest of the words of Jotham, and all his battles and works, have been written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah.
2 Chronicles 27:8	He was twenty-five years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for sixteen years in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 27:9	And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the City of David. And his son, Ahaz, reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 28:1	Ahaz was twenty years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for sixteen years in Jerusalem. He did not do what is right in the sight of the Lord, as his father David did.
2 Chronicles 28:2	Instead, he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel. Moreover, he also cast statues for the Baals.
2 Chronicles 28:3	It is he who burned incense in the Valley of the son of Hinnom. And he purified his sons by fire, in accord with the ritual of the nations that the Lord put to death at the advent of the sons of Israel.
2 Chronicles 28:4	Also, he was sacrificing and burning incense in the high places, and on the hills, and under every leafy tree.
2 Chronicles 28:5	And so the Lord, his God, delivered him into the hand of the king of Syria, who struck him and took great plunder from his kingdom. And he carried it away to Damascus. Also, he was delivered into the hands of the king of Israel, and he struck him with great affliction.
2 Chronicles 28:6	And Pekah, the son of Remaliah, killed, on one day, one hundred twenty thousand, all of them men of war from Judah, because they had forsaken the Lord, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 28:7	In the same time, Zichri, a powerful man of Ephraim, killed Maaseiah, the son of the king, and Azrikam, the governor of his house, and also Elkanah, who was second to the king.
2 Chronicles 28:8	And the sons of Israel seized, from their brothers, two hundred thousand women, boys, and girls, and immense plunder. And they took it away to Samaria.
2 Chronicles 28:9	At that time, there was a prophet of the Lord there, named Oded. And going out to meet the army arriving in Samaria, he said to them: “Behold, the Lord, the God of your fathers, having become angry against Judah, has delivered them into your hands. But you have killed them by atrocities, so that your cruelty has reached up to heaven.
2 Chronicles 28:10	Moreover, you wanted to subjugate the sons of Judah and Jerusalem as your men and women servants, which is a work that should never be done. And so you sinned in this matter against the Lord your God.
2 Chronicles 28:11	But listen to my counsel, and release the captives, whom you have brought from your brothers. For a great fury of the Lord is hanging over you.”
2 Chronicles 28:12	And so, some of the leaders of the sons of Ephraim, Azariah, the son of Johanan, Berechiah, the son of Meshillemoth, Jehizkiah, the son of Shallum, and Amasa, the son of Hadlai, stood up against those who were arriving from the battle.
2 Chronicles 28:13	And they said to them: “You shall not lead back captives to here, lest we sin against the Lord. Why are you willing to add to our sins, and to build upon our old offenses? For indeed, the sin is great, and the furious anger of the Lord is hanging over Israel.”
2 Chronicles 28:14	And the warriors released the spoils and all that they had seized, in the sight of the leaders and the entire multitude.
2 Chronicles 28:15	And the men, whom we mentioned above, rose up and took the captives. All those who were naked, they clothed from the spoils. And when they had clothed them, and had given them shoes, and had refreshed them with food and drink, and had anointed them because of the hardship, and had cared for them, whoever was not able to walk and whoever was feeble in body, they set them upon beasts of burden, and they led them to Jericho, the city of palm trees, to their brothers, and they themselves returned to Samaria.
2 Chronicles 28:16	In that time, king Ahaz sent to the king of the Assyrians, requesting assistance.
2 Chronicles 28:17	And the Edomites arrived and struck down many of Judah, and they seized great plunder.
2 Chronicles 28:18	Also, the Philistines spread out among the cities of the plains, and to the south of Judah. And they seized Beth-shemesh, and Aijalon, and Gederoth, and also Soco, and Timnah, and Gimzo, with their villages, and they lived in them.
2 Chronicles 28:19	For the Lord had humbled Judah because of Ahaz, the king of Judah, since he had stripped it of help, and had shown contempt for the Lord.
2 Chronicles 28:20	And he led against him Tilgath-pilneser, the king of the Assyrians, who also afflicted him and laid waste to him, without resistance.
2 Chronicles 28:21	And so Ahaz, despoiling the house of the Lord, and the house of the kings and the leaders, gave gifts to the king of the Assyrians, and yet it profited him nothing.
2 Chronicles 28:22	Moreover, in the time of his anguish, he also added to his contempt against the Lord. King Ahaz himself, by himself,
2 Chronicles 28:23	immolated victims to the gods of Damascus, those who had struck him. And he said: “The gods of the kings of Syria assist them, and so I will please them with victims, and they will help me.” But to the contrary, they had been the ruin of him and of all Israel.
2 Chronicles 28:24	And so, Ahaz, having despoiled and broken apart all the vessels of the house of God, closed up the doors of the temple of God, and made for himself altars in all the corners of Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 28:25	Also, he constructed altars in all the cities of Judah, in order to burn frankincense, and so he provoked the Lord, the God of his fathers, to wrath.
2 Chronicles 28:26	But the rest of his words, and all his works, the first and the last, have been written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
2 Chronicles 28:27	And Ahaz slept with his fathers. And they buried him in the city of Jerusalem. And they did not allow him to be in the sepulchers of the kings of Israel. And his son, Hezekiah, reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 29:1	And so Hezekiah began to reign when he was twenty-five years old. And he reigned for twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah.
2 Chronicles 29:2	And he did what was pleasing in the sight of the Lord, in accord with all that his father David had done.
2 Chronicles 29:3	In the first year and month of his reign, he opened the double doors of the house of the Lord, and he repaired them.
2 Chronicles 29:4	And he brought together the priests and Levites. And he gathered them in the wide eastern street.
2 Chronicles 29:5	And he said to them: “Listen to me, O Levites, and be sanctified. Cleanse the house of the Lord, the God of your fathers, and take away every uncleanness from the sanctuary.
2 Chronicles 29:6	Our fathers sinned and did evil in the sight of the Lord our God, abandoning him. They turned their faces away from the tabernacle of the Lord, and they presented their backs.
2 Chronicles 29:7	They closed up the doors which were in the portico, and they extinguished the lamps. And they did not burn incense, and they did not offer holocausts, in the sanctuary of the God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 29:8	And so the fury of the Lord was stirred up against Judah and Jerusalem, and he handed them over to turmoil, and to destruction, and to hissing, just as you discern with your own eyes.
2 Chronicles 29:9	Lo, our fathers have fallen by the sword. Our sons, and our daughters and wives have been led away as captives because of this wickedness.
2 Chronicles 29:10	Now therefore, it is pleasing to me that we should enter into a covenant with the Lord, the God of Israel. And he will turn away the fury of his indignation from us.
2 Chronicles 29:11	My sons, do not choose to be negligent. The Lord has chosen you so that you would stand before him, and minister to him, and worship him, and burn incense to him.”
2 Chronicles 29:12	Therefore, the Levites rose up, Mahath, the son of Amasai, and Joel, the son of Azariah, from the sons of Kohath; then, from the sons of Merari, Kish, the son of Abdi, and Azariah, the son of Jehallelel; and from the sons of Gershon, Joah, the son of Zimmah, and Eden, the son of Joah;
2 Chronicles 29:13	and truly, from the sons of Elizaphan, Shimri and Jeuel; also, from the sons of Asaph, Zechariah and Mattaniah;
2 Chronicles 29:14	indeed also, from the sons of Heman, Jehuel and Shimei; then too, from the sons of Jeduthun, Shemaiah and Uzziel.
2 Chronicles 29:15	And they gathered together their brothers. And they were sanctified. And they entered in accord with the command of the king and the order of the Lord, so that they might expiate the house of God.
2 Chronicles 29:16	And the priests, entering the temple of the Lord so that they might sanctify it, took every uncleanness, which they had found inside, out to the vestibule of the house of the Lord; and the Levites took it away and transported it outside, to the torrent Kidron.
2 Chronicles 29:17	Now they began to cleanse on the first day of the first month. And on the eighth day of the same month, they entered the portico of the temple of the Lord. And then they expiated the temple over eight days. And on the sixteenth day of the same month, they finished what they had begun.
2 Chronicles 29:18	Also, they entered to king Hezekiah, and they said to him: “We have sanctified the entire house of the Lord, and the altar of holocaust, and its vessels, indeed also the table of the presence, with all its vessels,
2 Chronicles 29:19	and all the equipment of the temple, which king Ahaz, during his reign, had polluted after his transgression. And behold, these have all been set forth before the altar of the Lord.”
2 Chronicles 29:20	And rising up at first light, king Hezekiah joined as one all the leaders of the city, and they ascended to the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 29:21	And together they offered seven bulls and seven rams, seven lambs and seven he-goats, for sin, for the kingdom, for the Sanctuary, for Judah. And he spoke to the priests, the sons of Aaron, so that they would offer these upon the altar of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 29:22	And so they slaughtered the bulls. And the priests took up the blood, and they poured it upon the altar. Then they also slaughtered the rams, and they poured their blood upon the altar. And they immolated the lambs, and they poured the blood upon the altar.
2 Chronicles 29:23	They brought the he-goats for sin before the king and the entire multitude. And they laid their hands upon them.
2 Chronicles 29:24	And the priests immolated them, and they sprinkled their blood before the altar, for the expiation of all Israel. For certainly the king had instructed that the holocaust and the sin offering should be made on behalf of all Israel.
2 Chronicles 29:25	Also, he situated the Levites in the house of the Lord, with cymbals, and psalteries, and harps, according to the disposition of king David, and of the seer Gad, and of the prophet Nathan. For indeed, this was the precept of the Lord, by the hand of his prophets.
2 Chronicles 29:26	And the Levites stood, holding the musical instruments of David, and the priests held the trumpets.
2 Chronicles 29:27	And Hezekiah ordered that they should offer holocausts upon the altar. And when the holocausts were being offered, they began to sing praises to the Lord, and to sound the trumpets, and to play various musical instruments, which David, the king of Israel, had prepared.
2 Chronicles 29:28	Then the entire crowd was adoring, and the singers and those who were holding the trumpeters were exercising their office, until the holocaust was completed.
2 Chronicles 29:29	And when the oblation was finished, the king, and all who were with him, bowed down and adored.
2 Chronicles 29:30	And Hezekiah and the rulers instructed the Levites to praise the Lord with the words of David, and of Asaph, the seer. And they praised him with great joy, and kneeling down, they adored.
2 Chronicles 29:31	And now Hezekiah also added: “You have filled your hands for the Lord. Draw near, and offer victims and praises in the house of the Lord.” Therefore, the entire multitude offered victims and praises and holocausts, with devout intention.
2 Chronicles 29:32	Now the number of the holocausts that the multitude offered was seventy bulls, one hundred rams, two hundred lambs.
2 Chronicles 29:33	And they sanctified to the Lord six hundred oxen and three thousand sheep.
2 Chronicles 29:34	Truly, the priests were few; neither were they sufficient to remove the pelts from the holocausts. Therefore, the Levites, their brothers, also assisted them, until the work was completed, and the priests, who were of higher rank, were sanctified. For indeed, the Levites are sanctified with an easier ritual than the priests.
2 Chronicles 29:35	Thus, there were very numerous holocausts, with the fat of the peace offerings and the libations of the holocausts. And the service of the house of the Lord was completed.
2 Chronicles 29:36	And Hezekiah and all the people were joyful because the ministry of the Lord was accomplished. For certainly, it had pleased them to do this suddenly.
2 Chronicles 30:1	Also, Hezekiah sent to all of Israel and Judah. And he wrote letters to Ephraim and Manasseh, so that they would come to the house of the Lord in Jerusalem, and so that they would keep the Passover to the Lord, the God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 30:2	Therefore, having taken counsel, the king and the rulers, and the entire assembly of Jerusalem, resolved that they would keep the Passover, in the second month.
2 Chronicles 30:3	For they had not been able to keep it at its proper time. For the priests, who were unable to suffice, had not been sanctified. And the people had not yet been gathered together in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 30:4	And the word was pleasing to the king, and to the entire multitude.
2 Chronicles 30:5	And they resolved that they would send messengers to all of Israel, from Beersheba even to Dan, so that they might come and keep the Passover to the Lord, the God of Israel, at Jerusalem. For many had not kept it, just as it was prescribed by the law.
2 Chronicles 30:6	And carriers traveled with the letters, by order of the king and his rulers, to all of Israel and Judah, proclaiming, in accord with what the king had ordered: “O sons of Israel, return to the Lord, the God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Israel. And he will return to the remnant who escaped from the hand of the king of the Assyrians.
2 Chronicles 30:7	Do not choose to be like your fathers and brothers, who withdrew from the Lord, the God of their fathers. And so he delivered them over to destruction, as you yourselves discern.
2 Chronicles 30:8	Do not choose to harden your necks, as your fathers did. Surrender to the hands of the Lord. And go to his Sanctuary, which he has sanctified unto eternity. Serve the Lord, the God of your fathers, and the fury of his wrath will be turned away from you.
2 Chronicles 30:9	For if you will return to the Lord, your brothers and sons will find mercy before their masters, who led them away as captives, and they will be returned to this land. For the Lord your God is compassionate and lenient, and he will not avert his face from you, if you will return to him.”
2 Chronicles 30:10	And so, the carriers were traveling quickly from city to city, throughout the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, as far as Zebulun, though they were ridiculing and mocking them.
2 Chronicles 30:11	Even so, certain men from Asher, and from Manasseh, and from Zebulun, acquiescing to this counsel, went to Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 30:12	Truly, the hand of God was working in Judah, to give them one heart, so that they would accomplish the word of the Lord, according to the precept of the king and of the rulers.
2 Chronicles 30:13	And many people gathered together in Jerusalem, so that they could keep the solemnity of unleavened bread, in the second month.
2 Chronicles 30:14	And rising up, they destroyed the altars which were in Jerusalem, and all the things in which incense was burned to idols. Overturning these things, they cast them into the torrent Kidron.
2 Chronicles 30:15	Then they immolated the Passover on the fourteenth day of the second month. Also, the priests and Levites, at length having been sanctified, offered the holocausts in the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 30:16	And they stood in their order, according to the disposition and law of Moses, the man of God. Yet truly, the priests took up the blood, which was to be poured out, from the hands of the Levites,
2 Chronicles 30:17	because a great number were not sanctified. And therefore, the Levites immolated the Passover for those who had not been sanctified to the Lord in time.
2 Chronicles 30:18	And now a great portion of the people from Ephraim, and Manasseh, and Issachar, and Zebulun, who had not been sanctified, ate the Passover, which is not in accord with what was written. And Hezekiah prayed for them, saying: “The good Lord will be forgiving
2 Chronicles 30:19	to all who, with their whole heart, seek the Lord, the God of their fathers. And he will not impute it to them, though they have not been sanctified.”
2 Chronicles 30:20	And the Lord heeded him, and was reconciled to the people.
2 Chronicles 30:21	And the sons of Israel who were found at Jerusalem kept the solemnity of unleavened bread for seven days with great rejoicing, praising the Lord throughout each day, with the Levites and the priests, accompanied by the musical instruments corresponding to their office.
2 Chronicles 30:22	And Hezekiah spoke to the heart of all the Levites, who had a good understanding concerning the Lord. And they ate during the seven days of the solemnity, immolating victims of peace offerings, and praising the Lord, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 30:23	And it pleased the entire multitude that they should celebrate, even for another seven days. And they did this with enormous gladness.
2 Chronicles 30:24	For Hezekiah, the king of Judah, had offered to the multitude one thousand bulls and seven thousand sheep. Truly, the rulers had given the people one thousand bulls and ten thousand sheep. Then a great mulititude of priests was sanctified.
2 Chronicles 30:25	And the whole multitude of Judah, as much the priests and Levites as the entire crowd that had arrived from Israel, and also the converts from the land of Israel, and those with a habitation in Judah, was overflowing with cheerfulness.
2 Chronicles 30:26	And there was a great celebration in Jerusalem, to such an extent as had not been in that city since the days of Solomon, the son of David, the king of Israel.
2 Chronicles 30:27	Then the priests and Levites rose up and blessed the people. And their voice was heeded. And their prayer reached the holy habitation of heaven.
2 Chronicles 31:1	And when these things had been celebrated according to ritual, all of Israel who had been found in the cities of Judah went forth, and they broke apart the idols and cut down the sacred groves. They demolished the high places and destroyed the altars, not only out of all Judah and Benjamin, but also out of Ephraim as well as Manasseh, until they utterly destroyed them. And all the sons of Israel returned to their possessions and cities.
2 Chronicles 31:2	Then Hezekiah appointed the companies of the priests and Levites by their divisions, each man in his proper office, certainly as much for the priests as for the Levites, for the sake of holocausts and peace offerings, so that they might minister and confess and sing, at the gates of the camp of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 31:3	Now the portion of the king, from his own substance, was such that they could offer a holocaust always, in morning and in evening, also on the Sabbaths, and the new moons, and the other solemnities, just as it was written in the law of Moses.
2 Chronicles 31:4	And now he instructed the people living in Jerusalem that they were to give portions to the priests and Levites, so that they would be able to attend to the law of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 31:5	And when this had reached the ears of the multitude, the sons of Israel brought an abundance of first-fruits of grain, wine, and oil, and also honey. And they offered a tenth part of all that the soil brings forth.
2 Chronicles 31:6	Then too, the sons of Israel and Judah, who were living in the cities of Judah, brought tithes of oxen and sheep, and tithes of the holy things that they had vowed to the Lord their God. And carrying all these things, they made many stacks.
2 Chronicles 31:7	In the third month, they began to lay out the foundations of the stacks. And in the seventh month, they finished them.
2 Chronicles 31:8	And when Hezekiah and his rulers had entered, they saw the stacks, and they blessed the Lord and the people of Israel.
2 Chronicles 31:9	And Hezekiah questioned the priests and Levites, as to why the stacks were laid out in this way.
2 Chronicles 31:10	Azariah, the high priest from the stock of Zadok, answered him, saying: “Since the first-fruits began to be offered in the house of the Lord, we have eaten and been satisfied, and much remains. For the Lord has blessed his people. Then what was left over is this great abundance, which you see.”
2 Chronicles 31:11	And so Hezekiah instructed that they should prepare storage places for the house of the Lord. And when they had done so,
2 Chronicles 31:12	they faithfully brought in the first-fruits, as well as the tithes and all that they had vowed. Now the overseer of these things was Conaniah, a Levite; and his brother, Shimei, was second.
2 Chronicles 31:13	And after him, there was Jehiel, and Azariah, and Nahath, and Asaahel, and Jerimoth, and also Jozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benaiah, who were overseers under the hands of Conaniah, and his brother, Shimei, by the authority of Hezekiah, the king, and Azariah, the high priest of the house of God, to whom all these things belonged.
2 Chronicles 31:14	Yet truly, Kore, the son of Imnah, a Levite and the porter of the eastern gate, was the overseer of the things that were being offered freely to the Lord, and of the first-fruits, and of the things consecrated for the Holy of Holies.
2 Chronicles 31:15	And under his charge were Eden, and Benjamin, Jeshua, and Shemaiah, and also Amariah, and Shecaniah, in the cities of the priests, so that they would distribute faithfully to their brothers, the small as well as the great, their portions
2 Chronicles 31:16	(except for the males from three years old and upward) for all who were entering the temple of the Lord, and for whatever was needed for the ministry, throughout each day, as well as for the observances according to their divisions.
2 Chronicles 31:17	And so, for the priests, by their families, and for the Levites, from the twentieth year and upward, by their orders and companies,
2 Chronicles 31:18	and for the entire multitude, as much for the wives as for their children of both sexes, provisions were offered faithfully from whatever had been sanctified.
2 Chronicles 31:19	Then too, men were appointed of the sons of Aaron, throughout the fields and the suburbs of each city, who would distribute portions to all the males among the priests and Levites.
2 Chronicles 31:20	Therefore, Hezekiah did all these things (which we have said) in all of Judah. And he worked what is good and upright and true before the Lord his God,
2 Chronicles 31:21	for the whole service of the ministry of the house of the Lord, in accord with the law and the ceremonies, desiring to seek his God with his whole heart. And he did so, and he prospered.
2 Chronicles 32:1	After these things, and after this manner of truth, Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians arrived. And entering Judah, he besieged the fortified cities, desiring to seize them.
2 Chronicles 32:2	And when Hezekiah had seen this, specifically that Sennacherib had arrived, and that the entire force of the war was turning against Jerusalem,
2 Chronicles 32:3	he took counsel with the rulers and with the most valiant men, so that they might obstruct the heads of the springs which were beyond the city. And with everyone discerning the same judgment about this,
2 Chronicles 32:4	he gathered together a great multitude, and they obstructed all the springs, and the brook which was flowing through the midst of the land, saying: “Otherwise, the kings of the Assyrians might arrive and find an abundance of water.”
2 Chronicles 32:5	Also, acting industriously, he built up the entire wall that had been broken apart. And he constructed towers upon it, and another wall outside it. And he repaired Millo, in the City of David. And he made all kinds of weapons and shields.
2 Chronicles 32:6	And he appointed leaders of the warriors within the army. And he summoned them all to the wide street of the gate of the city. And he spoke to their heart, saying:
2 Chronicles 32:7	“Act manfully and be strengthened. Do not be afraid. Neither should you dread the king of the Assyrians and the entire multitude that is with him. For many more are with us than with him.
2 Chronicles 32:8	For with him is an arm of flesh; with us is the Lord our God, who is our helper, and who fights for us.” And the people were strengthened by this type of words from Hezekiah, the king of Judah.
2 Chronicles 32:9	After these things, Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians, sent his servants to Jerusalem, (for he and his entire army were besieging Lachish) to Hezekiah, the king of Judah, and to all the people who were in the city, saying:
2 Chronicles 32:10	“Thus says Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians: In whom do you have faith, as you sit besieged in Jerusalem?
2 Chronicles 32:11	Does not Hezekiah deceive you, so that he would deliver you to die from hunger and thirst, by affirming that the Lord your God will free you from the hand of the king of the Assyrians?
2 Chronicles 32:12	Is this not the same Hezekiah who destroyed his own high places and altars, and who instructed Judah and Jerusalem, saying: ‘You shall worship before one altar, and you shall burn incense upon it?’
2 Chronicles 32:13	Do you not know what I and my fathers have done to all the peoples of the lands? Have the gods of the nations and all the lands prevailed so as to free their region from my hand?
2 Chronicles 32:14	Who is there, out of all the gods of the nations that my fathers destroyed, who is able to rescue his people from my hand, so that now also your God would be able to rescue you from this hand?
2 Chronicles 32:15	Therefore, let not Hezekiah deceive or delude you with vain persuasion. And you should not believe him. For if no god out of all the nations and kingdoms was able to free his people from my hand, and from the hand of my fathers, consequently neither will your God be able to rescue you from my hand.”
2 Chronicles 32:16	Then too, his servants were speaking many other things against the Lord God, and against his servant Hezekiah.
2 Chronicles 32:17	Also, he wrote letters full of blasphemy against the Lord God of Israel. And against him he said: “Just as the gods of other nations were unable to free their people from my hand, so also is the God of Hezekiah unable to rescue his people from this hand.”
2 Chronicles 32:18	Moreover, he also shouted with a great clamor, in the language of the Jews, toward the people who were sitting upon the walls of Jerusalem, so that he might frighten them and so seize the city.
2 Chronicles 32:19	And he was speaking against the God of Jerusalem, just as against the gods of the peoples of the earth, which are works of the hands of men.
2 Chronicles 32:20	And Hezekiah the king, and Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, prayed against this blasphemy, and they cried out to heaven.
2 Chronicles 32:21	And the Lord sent an Angel, who struck all the experienced men and warriors, and the leaders of the army of the king of the Assyrians. And he returned in disgrace to his own land. And when he had entered the house of his god, the sons who had gone forth from his loins killed him with the sword.
2 Chronicles 32:22	And the Lord saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians, and from the hand of all. And he presented to them peace on every side.
2 Chronicles 32:23	And now many were bringing victims and sacrifices to the Lord in Jerusalem, and gifts to Hezekiah, the king of Judah. And after these things, he was exalted before all the nations.
2 Chronicles 32:24	In those days, Hezekiah was sick, even unto death, and he prayed to the Lord. And he heeded him, and gave to him a sign.
2 Chronicles 32:25	But he did not repay according to the benefits which he had received, for his heart was lifted up. And so wrath was brought against him, and against Judah and Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 32:26	And after this, he was humbled, because he had exalted his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And therefore the wrath of the Lord did not overwhelm them in the days of Hezekiah.
2 Chronicles 32:27	Now Hezekiah was wealthy and very famous. And he gathered for himself many treasures of silver and gold and precious stones, of aromatics, and all kinds of weapons, and vessels of great price,
2 Chronicles 32:28	and also repositories of grain, wine, and oil, and stalls for every beast of burden, and fencing for cattle.
2 Chronicles 32:29	And he built for himself cities. For indeed, he had innumerable herds and flocks of sheep. For the Lord had given to him an exceedingly great substance.
2 Chronicles 32:30	This same Hezekiah was the one who blocked the upper font of the waters of Gihon, and who diverted them down to the western part of the City of David. In all his works, he prosperously accomplished whatever he willed.
2 Chronicles 32:31	Yet still, concerning the legates from the leaders of Babylon, who had been sent to him so that they might inquire about the portent which had happened upon the earth, God permitted him to be tempted, so that everything might be made known which was in his heart.
2 Chronicles 32:32	Now the rest of the words of Hezekiah, and his mercies, have been written in the vision of the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amos, and in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
2 Chronicles 32:33	And Hezekiah slept with his fathers. And they buried him above the sepulchers of the sons of David. And all of Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, celebrated his funeral. And his son, Manasseh, reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 33:1	Manasseh was twelve years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for fifty-five years in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 33:2	But he did evil before the Lord, in accord with all the abominations of the nations which the Lord overturned before the sons of Israel.
2 Chronicles 33:3	And turning away, he repaired the high places, which had been demolished by his father, Hezekiah. And he constructed altars to the Baals, and made sacred groves. And he adored the entire army of heaven, and he served them.
2 Chronicles 33:4	Also, he built altars in the house of the Lord, about which the Lord had said, “My name shall be in Jerusalem forever.”
2 Chronicles 33:5	But he built these for the entire army of heaven, in the two courts of the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 33:6	And he caused his sons to pass through fire in the Valley of the son of Hinnom. He observed dreams, followed divinations, served the occult arts, had with him magicians and enchanters, and worked many evils before the Lord, so that he provoked him.
2 Chronicles 33:7	Also, he set up a graven image and molten statue in the house of God, about which God said to David, and to his son Solomon: “In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel, I will place my name forever.
2 Chronicles 33:8	And I will not cause the foot of Israel to be moved from the land which I delivered to their fathers. Yet this is so, only if they will take care to do what I have instructed them, by the hand of Moses, with the entire law and the ceremonies and the judgments.”
2 Chronicles 33:9	And so Manasseh seduced Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that they did evil, more so than all the nations which the Lord had overturned before the face of the sons of Israel.
2 Chronicles 33:10	And the Lord spoke to him and to his people, but they were not willing to pay attention.
2 Chronicles 33:11	Therefore, he led over them the leaders of the army of the king of the Assyrians. And they captured Manasseh, and they led him, bound with chains and fetters, to Babylon.
2 Chronicles 33:12	And after this, being in great anguish, he prayed to the Lord his God. And he did penance greatly before the God of his fathers.
2 Chronicles 33:13	And he petitioned and begged him intently. And he heeded his prayer, and led him back to Jerusalem, into his kingdom. And Manasseh realized that the Lord himself was God.
2 Chronicles 33:14	After these things, he built a wall outside the City of David, to the west of Gihon, at the steep valley, from the entrance to the fish gate, circling around as far as Ophel. And he raised it up greatly. And he appointed leaders of the army in all the fortified cities of Judah.
2 Chronicles 33:15	And he took away the foreign gods, and the idol from the house of the Lord, and also the altars which he had made on the mount of the house of the Lord and in Jerusalem. And he cast all these things outside the city.
2 Chronicles 33:16	Then he repaired the altar of the Lord, and he immolated upon it victims, and peace offerings, with praise. And he instructed Judah to serve the Lord, the God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 33:17	Yet still the people were immolating on the high places, to the Lord their God.
2 Chronicles 33:18	But the rest of the deeds of Manasseh, and his prayer to his God, and also the words of the seers who were speaking to him in the name of the Lord, the God of Israel, are contained in the words of the kings of Israel.
2 Chronicles 33:19	Also, his prayer and its heeding, and all his sins and contempt, and the sites on which he built high places and made sacred groves and statues, before he repented, have been written in the words of Hozai.
2 Chronicles 33:20	Then Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his own house. And his son, Amon, reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 33:21	Amon was twenty-two years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for two years in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 33:22	And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, just as his father Manasseh had done. And he immolated to all the idols that Manasseh had fabricated, and he served them.
2 Chronicles 33:23	But he did not turn his face to the Lord, as his father Manasseh had turned himself. And he sinned much more grievously.
2 Chronicles 33:24	And when his servants had conspired against him, they killed him in his own house.
2 Chronicles 33:25	But the rest of the multitude of the people, having slain those who had struck down Amon, appointed his son, Josiah, as king in his place.
2 Chronicles 34:1	Josiah was eight years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for thirty-one years in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 34:2	And he did what was right in the sight of the Lord, and he walked in the ways of his father David. He did not turn away, neither to the right, nor to the left.
2 Chronicles 34:3	Now in the eighth year of his reign, when he was still a boy, he began to seek the God of his father David. And in the twelfth year after he had begun to reign, he cleansed Judah and Jerusalem from the high places, and the sacred groves, and the idols, and the graven images.
2 Chronicles 34:4	And in his sight, they destroyed the altars of the Baals, and they demolished the idols which had been set upon them. And then he cut down the sacred groves and crushed the graven images. And he scattered the fragments upon the tombs of those who had been accustomed to immolate to them.
2 Chronicles 34:5	And after that, he burned the bones of the priests upon the altars of the idols. And so did he cleanse Judah and Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 34:6	Then too, in the cities of Manasseh, and of Ephraim, and of Simeon, even to Naphtali, he overturned everything.
2 Chronicles 34:7	And when he had destroyed the altars and the sacred groves, and had broken the idols to pieces, and when all the profane shrines had been demolished from the entire land of Israel, he returned to Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 34:8	And so, in the eighteenth year of his reign, having now cleansed the land and the temple of the Lord, he sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah, the ruler of the city, and Joah, the son of Joahaz, the historian, to repair the house of the Lord his God.
2 Chronicles 34:9	And they went to Hilkiah, the high priest. And having accepted from him the money which had been brought into the house of the Lord, and which the Levites and porters had gathered together from Manasseh, and Ephraim, and the entire remnant of Israel, and also from all of Judah, and Benjamin, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem,
2 Chronicles 34:10	they delivered it into the hands of those who were in charge of the workers in the house of the Lord, so that they might repair the temple, and restore whatever was weak.
2 Chronicles 34:11	And they gave it to the artisans and the stoneworkers, so that they might buy stones from the quarries, and wood for the joints of the building and for the upper floors the houses, which the kings of Judah had destroyed.
2 Chronicles 34:12	And they did everything faithfully. Now the overseers of the workers were Jahath and Obadiah, from the sons of Merari, and Zechariah and Meshullam, from the sons of Kohath, who were supervising the work. All were Levites who knew how to play musical instruments.
2 Chronicles 34:13	Truly, scribes and teachers, from among the Levites who were porters, were over those who were carrying burdens for various uses.
2 Chronicles 34:14	And when they carried out the money that had been brought into the temple of the Lord, Hilkiah the priest found the book of the law of the Lord by the hand of Moses.
2 Chronicles 34:15	And he said to Shaphan, the scribe: “I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord.” And he delivered it to him.
2 Chronicles 34:16	Then he took the volume to the king, and he reported to him, saying: “Behold, everything that you entrusted to your servants is completed.
2 Chronicles 34:17	They have melted together the silver that was found in the house of the Lord. And it has been given to the overseers of the artisans and craftsmen for various works.
2 Chronicles 34:18	After this, Hilkiah the priest gave to me this book.” And when he had read it in the presence of the king,
2 Chronicles 34:19	and he had heard the words of the law, he tore his garments.
2 Chronicles 34:20	And he instructed Hilkiah, and Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, and Abdon, the son of Micah, and also Shaphan, the scribe, and Asaiah, the servant of the king, saying:
2 Chronicles 34:21	“Go, and pray to the Lord for me, and for the remnant of Israel and Judah, concerning all the words of this book, which has been found. For the great fury of the Lord has rained down upon us, because our fathers did not keep the words of the Lord, to do all that has been written in this volume.”
2 Chronicles 34:22	Therefore, Hilkiah, and those who had been sent with him by the king, went to Huldah, the prophetess, the wife of Shallum, the son of Tokhath, the son of Hasrah, the keeper of the vestments. She was living in Jerusalem, in the second part. And they spoke to her the words which we explained above.
2 Chronicles 34:23	And she responded to them: “Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Tell the man who sent you to me:
2 Chronicles 34:24	Thus says the Lord: Behold, I will lead in evils over this place, and over its inhabitants, with all the curses that have been written in this book, which they have read before the king of Judah.
2 Chronicles 34:25	For they have abandoned me, and they have sacrificed to foreign gods, so that they provoked me to wrath by all the works of their hands. Therefore, my fury will rain down upon this place, and it will not be extinguished.
2 Chronicles 34:26	To the king of Judah, who sent you to petition before the Lord, so shall you speak: Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Since you listened to the words of this volume,
2 Chronicles 34:27	and your heart was softened, and you humbled yourself in the sight of God concerning these things which have been said against this place and against the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and since, revering my face, you have torn your garments, and have wept before me: I also have heeded you, says the Lord.
2 Chronicles 34:28	For now I will gather you to your fathers, and you will be brought into your sepulcher in peace. Neither shall your eyes see all the evil that I will lead in, over this place and over its inhabitants.” And so they took back to the king all that she had said.
2 Chronicles 34:29	And he, calling together all those greater by birth of Judah and Jerusalem,
2 Chronicles 34:30	ascended to the house of the Lord, united with all the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the priests and the Levites, and all the people, from the least even to the greatest. And in their hearing, in the house of the Lord, the king read all the words of the volume.
2 Chronicles 34:31	And standing up at his tribunal, he struck a covenant before the Lord, so that he would walk after him, and would keep his precepts and testimonies and justifications, with his whole heart and with his whole soul, and so that he would do the things that were written in that volume, which he had read.
2 Chronicles 34:32	Also, concerning this, he bound by oath all who had been found in Jerusalem and Benjamin. And the inhabitants of Jerusalem acted in accord with the covenant of the Lord, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 34:33	Therefore, Josiah took away all the abominations from all the regions of the sons of Israel. And he caused all who were remaining in Israel to serve the Lord their God. During all his days, they did not withdraw from the Lord, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 35:1	Now Josiah kept the Passover to the Lord in Jerusalem, and it was immolated on the fourteenth day of the first month.
2 Chronicles 35:2	And he appointed the priests in their offices, and he exhorted them to minister in the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 35:3	Also, he spoke with the Levites, by whose instruction all of Israel was sanctified to the Lord, saying: “Place the ark in the sanctuary of the temple, which Solomon, the son of David, the king of Israel, built. For never again shall you carry it. Instead, now you shall minister to the Lord your God, and to his people Israel.
2 Chronicles 35:4	And prepare yourselves by your houses and families, within each division, just as David, the king of Israel, instructed, and just as his son Solomon has written.
2 Chronicles 35:5	And minister in the sanctuary, by the Levitical families and companies.
2 Chronicles 35:6	And having been sanctified, immolate the Passover. And then prepare your brothers, so that they may be able to act in accord with the words which the Lord has spoken by the hand of Moses.”
2 Chronicles 35:7	After this, Josiah gave to all the people, those who had been found there at the solemnity of the Passover, thirty thousand lambs and young goats from the flocks, and other kinds of small cattle, and also three thousand oxen. All these were from the substance of the king.
2 Chronicles 35:8	Also, his rulers offered what they had vowed freely, as much for the people as for the priests and Levites. Moreover, Hilkiah, and Zechariah, and Jehiel, rulers of the house of the Lord, gave to the priests, in order to observe the Passover, two thousand six hundred small cattle, and three hundred oxen.
2 Chronicles 35:9	And Conaniah, with Shemaiah and Nethanel, his brothers, indeed also Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, rulers of the Levites, gave to the rest of the Levites, in order to celebrate the Passover, five thousand small cattle, and five hundred oxen.
2 Chronicles 35:10	And the ministry was prepared. And the priests stood in their office, and the Levites also stood in their companies, according to the order of the king.
2 Chronicles 35:11	And the Passover was immolated. And the priests sprinkled the blood with their hand, and the Levites drew away the pelts of the holocausts.
2 Chronicles 35:12	And they put these aside, so that they might give them to each one, by their houses and families, and so that they might be offered to the Lord, just as it was written in the book of Moses. And with the oxen, they acted similarly.
2 Chronicles 35:13	And they roasted the Passover above fire, in accord with what was written in the law. Yet truly, the victims of peace offerings they boiled in cauldrons and kettles and pots. And they promptly distributed these to all the common people.
2 Chronicles 35:14	Then afterward, they made preparations for themselves and for the priests. Indeed, the priests had been occupied in the oblations of the holocausts and the fat offerings, even until night. Therefore, the Levites made preparations for themselves and for the priests, the sons of Aaron, last.
2 Chronicles 35:15	Now the singers, the sons of Asaph, were standing in their order, according to the instruction of David, and of Asaph and Heman and Jeduthun, the prophets of the king. Truly, the porters kept watch at each gate, so as not to depart from their ministry even for one moment. And for this reason, their brothers, the Levites, prepared foods for them.
2 Chronicles 35:16	And so, the entire worship ritual of the Lord was completed on that day, so that they observed the Passover and offered holocausts upon the altar of the Lord, in accord with the precept of king Josiah.
2 Chronicles 35:17	And the sons of Israel, who had been found there, kept the Passover at that time, with the solemnity of unleavened bread, for seven days.
2 Chronicles 35:18	There was no Passover similar to this one in Israel, from the days of Samuel the prophet. And neither did anyone, out of all the kings of Israel, keep such a Passover as did Josiah, the priests and Levites, and all those of Judah and Israel who had been found, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 35:19	In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah, this Passover was celebrated.
2 Chronicles 35:20	After Josiah had repaired the temple, Neco, the king of Egypt, ascended to fight at Carchemish, beside the Euphrates. And Josiah went out to meet him.
2 Chronicles 35:21	But he sent messengers to him, saying: “What is there between me and you, O king of Judah? I have not come against you today. Instead, I am fighting against another house, to which God instructed me to go promptly. Refrain from acting against God, who is with me, otherwise he may kill you.”
2 Chronicles 35:22	Josiah was not willing to return. Instead, he prepared for war against him. Neither would he agree to the words of Neco from the mouth of God. In truth, he traveled so that he might do battle in the field of Megiddo.
2 Chronicles 35:23	And there, having been wounded by archers, he said to his servants: “Lead me away from the battle. For I have been severely wounded.”
2 Chronicles 35:24	And they took him from the chariot, into another chariot which was following him, as was the custom of kings. And they transported him to Jerusalem. And he died, and he was buried in the mausoleum of his fathers. And all of Judah and Jerusalem mourned for him,
2 Chronicles 35:25	most of all Jeremiah. All the singing men and women repeat his lamentations over Josiah, even to the present day. And this has become like a law in Israel. Behold, it is found written in the Lamentations.
2 Chronicles 35:26	Now the rest of the words of Josiah, and his mercies, which were instructed by the law of the Lord,
2 Chronicles 35:27	and also his works, the first and the last, have been written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
2 Chronicles 36:1	Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz, the son of Josiah, and they appointed him king in place of his father, in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:2	Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for three months in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:3	Then the king of Egypt, when he had arrived in Jerusalem, removed him, and condemned the land to one hundred talents of silver and one talent of gold.
2 Chronicles 36:4	And he appointed Eliakim, his brother, as king in his place, over Judah and Jerusalem. And he changed his name to Jehoiakim. Truly, he took Jehoahaz with him, and he led him away to Egypt.
2 Chronicles 36:5	Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for eleven years in Jerusalem. And he did evil before the Lord his God.
2 Chronicles 36:6	Nebuchadnezzar, the king of the Chaldeans, ascended against him, and led him bound in chains to Babylon.
2 Chronicles 36:7	And to there, he also took away the vessels of the Lord, and he placed them in his temple.
2 Chronicles 36:8	But the rest of the words of Jehoiakim, and his abominations that he worked, and the things that were found in him, are contained in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel. Then his son, Jehoiachin, reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 36:9	Jehoiachin was eight years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for three months and ten days in Jerusalem. And he did evil in the sight of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 36:10	And when the course of a year had turned, king Nebuchadnezzar sent and brought him to Babylon, carrying away, at the same time, the most precious vessels of the house of the Lord. Truly, he appointed his uncle, Zedekiah, as king over Judah and Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:11	Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he had begun to reign. And he reigned for eleven years in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:12	And he did evil in the eyes of the Lord his God. And he did not show remorse before the face of the prophet Jeremiah, who was speaking to him from the mouth of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 36:13	Also, he withdrew from king Nebuchadnezzar, who had bound him by an oath to God, and he hardened his own neck and his own heart, so that he did not return to the Lord, the God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 36:14	Then too, all the leaders of the priests, with the people, transgressed iniquitously, in accord with all the abominations of the Gentiles. And they polluted the house of the Lord, which he had sanctified to himself in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:15	Then the Lord, the God of their fathers, sent to them, by the hand of his messengers, rising in the night and daily admonishing them. For he was lenient to his people and to his habitation.
2 Chronicles 36:16	But they ridiculed the messengers of God, and they gave little weight to his words, and they mocked the prophets, until the fury of the Lord ascended against his people, and there was no remedy.
2 Chronicles 36:17	For he led over them the king of the Chaldeans. And he put to death their young men by the sword, in the house of his sanctuary. There was no pity for adolescents, nor virgins, nor the elderly, nor even for the disabled. Instead, he delivered them all into his hands.
2 Chronicles 36:18	And all the vessels of the house of Lord, as much the greater as the lesser, and the treasures of the temple, and of the king and the rulers, he carried away to Babylon.
2 Chronicles 36:19	The enemies set fire to the house of God, and they destroyed the wall of Jerusalem. They burned down all the towers. And whatever was precious, they demolished.
2 Chronicles 36:20	If anyone had escaped from the sword, he was led into Babylon. And he served the king and his sons, until the king of Persia would command,
2 Chronicles 36:21	and the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah would be fulfilled, and the land would celebrate her Sabbaths. For during all the days of the desolation, she kept a Sabbath, until the seventy years were completed.
2 Chronicles 36:22	Then, in the first year of Cyrus, the king of the Persians, in order to fulfill the word of the Lord, which he had spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah, the Lord stirred up the heart of Cyrus, the king of the Persians, who commanded this to be proclaimed throughout his entire kingdom, and also in writing, saying:
2 Chronicles 36:23	“Thus says Cyrus, the king of the Persians: The Lord, the God of heaven, has given to me all the kingdoms of the earth. And he has instructed me that I should build for him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judea. Who among you is from his entire people? May the Lord his God be with him, and let him ascend.”
